Hello everyone and thank you for tuning
into HCCTV stream of the board of
trustee committee meetings for August
6th, 2025.
The meetings will begin at 1. So, you've
got time to relax and do a little bit
more work. And we'll be starting
shortly.
at
>> 10:01 p.m. This meeting was called for
the purposes listed on the duly posted
meeting notice. The other committee
members are trustee sheban, trustee
Linton Gary and trustee as an alternate
Renee uh Patterson. A citizen desiring
to appear before the board of trustees
shall complete the hearing of citizen
form 24 hours prior to the meeting and
file set application with the board
services office. Uh Sharon, can you
confirm that no citizens are signed up
to speak before the committee?
>> That is that is correct.
>> Thank you. Okay, we have uh topics for
discussion and we will begin with item A
which is the academic student uh
supports and this report uh again is not
an action item. It is a report item. Dr.
uh Ford Fischer if uh you can introduce
that item please.
>> Thank you very much madam chair members
of the board. This is a discussion item
that presents academic student support
in many areas of the institution to
include libraries, tutoring services,
and digital access centers. And with
your permission, Madam Chair, Dr. Norma
Perez will provide a brief overview and
answer all questions. Dr. Perez, senior
vice chancellor of instruction and
student services.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. Excuse me. Uh,
good afternoon, Madam Chair and
trustees.
As we continue to prioritize student
success and learning within
instructional services, I am pleased to
share updates regarding our academic
instructional support services. These
services play a critical role in
fostering a thriving educational
environment.
Today,
we will highlight and focus on three key
areas identified by students as
important to their academic
achievements. HC libraries, tutoring
services, and the digital access
centers. These components constitute
essential wraparound support, ensuring
students receive the necessary
assistance to excel in their educational
endeavors. At this time, I will ask the
team members to please stand to be
recognized. Uh, in the audience, we have
the executive director of the library,
Mick Stafford.
The director of tutoring, Amanda
Guerrero, could not be with us today.
Uh, however, her team is with us. If her
team will please stand, please, and be
recognized.
[Applause]
The libraries are key areas for our
students and community members to
congregate and benefit from the
resources afforded to all stakeholders.
In addition to providing affordable uh
providing um in addition to providing a
studentoriented space for students to
work to do work in the libraries, we
also provide services to support the
classroom. Library services are keen on
assessing data and this is evident in
the increased number of library webpage
views and database downloads. Both
library web views and database downloads
are up from the previous academic year.
As you can tell by this slide, the
librarians are instrumental in providing
library instruction where they hold
interactive learning sessions to help
students learn how to use the library
resources, how to site appropriately,
and to help with any research questions.
Additionally, the team understands the
value of continuous improvement. The
team has effectively created an
interactive
uh chat box and are intentionally
increasing their understanding of
artificial intelligence.
To further the request for continuous
improvement, the library will implement
a new library management system that was
approved by the board a while back that
will approve the students user interface
and will continue to review library
survey results and make any changes
warranted from the library survey.
Tutoring is also experiencing
significant increases in visits,
tutoring sessions, and tutoring hours.
The success rates of these students of
those students who attend tutoring are
generally higher than those students who
do not.
Math results are interesting.
We are actually encouraged by the
numbers because we believe that the math
students attending these sessions are
those who really need the assistance. We
have been able to help many students be
successful. As you might suspect,
students need more help in English and
mathematic courses.
>> Dr. Pettis, the I can't see the bottom,
but what is your source for this data?
>> The tutoring the the source is the uh
the stu the the tutoring academic
database that they have.
>> And then h how do we come up with these
numbers in that database? Like are these
tests that they take? Are they what what
is this? What is the instrument? It's
it's uh it's the results of their their
their um the students who took these um
the students who were in tutoring and
these are the results of the courses
that they were enrolled in at the time.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
>> I'd like that.
I mean the important part here for me um
as the chair of this committee is and
and I'm sure for my my members is okay
the the source of the data and you know
yeah what we're looking at here in terms
of numbers
>> Dr. Buridge
so the tutoring um center keeps very
robust records about which students are
receiving tutoring and for which
courses. So what we do is we take the
records from the tutoring center that
says a particular student received
tutoring for this course and then we
connect it to the grade information at
the end of the semester. Since we know
which tutor which students received
tutoring and which students did not,
we're able to compare those two groups
to see how each group performed at the
end of the semester.
>> Thank you, Dr. Orange.
So this is also the data by subject
area. Uh the tutoring team is definitely
working hard to increase the stakeholder
engagement with tutoring. We've recently
implemented pass t which is a system
that provides faculty feedback regarding
the students attendance in tutoring.
There uh was a question regarding AI and
tutoring. Uh tutors are currently using
Wolfran alpha in tutoring sessions with
students. uh it's it has become an
excellent uh it's an excellent learning
tool that is used to assist the students
with math especially uh calculus 1 2 and
three and students can use it to check
their answers gain a deeper insight into
the mathematical methods and so forth.
Uh so mo more recently we're actually we
were actually part of a grant proposal
for an AI assisted writing improvement.
Uh however the grant fell through uh due
to the changes in the department of ed.
Uh the lead for that grant however has
contacted us that lead was from the cal
from a California university and has
asked us to participate in a follow-up
opportunity which we are currently
considering. So we are looking at what
options we have for AI tutoring as well.
And then lastly, we talk about our
digital access centers were which again
were were approved by our board years
ago regarding using HEARF dollars to be
able to create these and there are great
resources for our students to utilize
study rooms or check out lab laptops
within the center. All the centers are
being utilized and students fully
recognize and understand that they are
in place for them to go for help or to
participate on in their online classes.
And we have found these to be very
successful with our students and of
course these are also available to our
community.
So this concludes the presentation. Uh
I'm here to address any questions as
well as the team.
>> Any questions? Trusty Shiva Shiva.
>> Yeah, just so appreciate the
presentation and and appreciate you um
giving some forethought to my question
about AI tutoring. I did want to lean in
on that a little bit. Uh so Wolfrrim is
an amazing tool. Um I remember using
that when I was a student. that was just
coming out in those days. Um but um I do
think we've got an exceptional leg up on
most of our competition because we've
got our amazing AI program uh in house
and I think connecting the incredible
talents that we've got in that AI
department to develop tools that can
help almost be a mathematics sparring
partner for our students um could really
be a force multiplier for the really
amazing work that our tutoring team is
doing. Um so very much appreciate that
you're all leaning in. and I would just
encourage you to continue doing so. Um,
we're seeing amazing anecdotal results.
I think there was a big study in Nigeria
that showed incredible results from a
couple of hours a day of of tutoring
assistance. Um, and as well as we're
seeing uh K- through2 um private schools
that are starting to really adopt and
leverage uh couple hours a day of
education and seeing incredible advances
in in progress. So, just wanted to say
let's let's not rest on our laurels on
that one. the more that we can leverage
our internal talent to push ahead of the
pack, um I think it it would be well
worth our while. So,
>> thank you.
>> Anything else? Nope. Okay. All right.
Thank you.
>> Appreciate it, Dr. Pedes.
>> Thank you.
>> Next on the agenda is item B, FY,
student performance outcomes.
Chancellor,
>> thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board committee. This is
a discussion item that provides student
performance outcomes fall 2024 and
spring 2025 semesters. And with your
permission, Madame Chair, Dr. Andrea
Buridge, the vice chancellor for Dr.
Norma Perez, senior vice chancellor for
instruction and student services will
come to the podium to provide an
overview and to answer all questions.
Dr. Burridge and Dr. Perez.
Thank you, Madame Chancellor, board.
Thank you for the opportunity to review
HCC student outcomes. We've organized
this presentation proceeding from our
leading indicators through our longer
term lagging indicators um concluding
with some information about our um most
important initiatives. Starting with
course success rates, we see an increase
in success rates, which are um A, B, and
C grades. and decreases in the W, D, and
F rates, which means that our students
are we are increasing the success within
the courses.
>> Can you I'm sorry again because I cannot
see.
>> Okay.
>> Can you call out the source, please?
>> Sure. Um the source is our student
information system. What we do when we
calculate these is we um essentially
extract all of the students grades
across the courses and then calculate
the percents that the percent of
students who re the percent of grades
that were A B's and C's and that gives
us that rate and you can see that we've
um postcoid the success rate in the fall
and springs dropped to about 72.6 six
and you can see we've increased up to
76.5
which is even higher than our precoid
rates.
>> Thank you.
>> Um similarly and these data are
extracted sim similarly what we do here
is we look at all of the grades for
particular courses and the success rate
across the courses and when we look at
the last four years coming out of COVID
we again see an increasing trend. Now
these courses were selected because they
are some of our gateway courses which
are the large firstear courses that
students typically take as they enter
the institution.
Um we also present the retention and
persistence rates. Retention is a rate
at which students remain enrolled at HCC
and persistence is a rate at which they
remain enrolled at the same institution
that's HCC or another institution.
Because we offer a lot of short-term
certificates, we actually look at a
positive outcome rate which includes the
students who have completed something
within that first year.
Um for retention, we see an increase in
um fall to spring as well as fall to
fall. Our preliminary numbers, we have
another probably 20,000 registrations
before the first day of classes, but
preliminarily we're also going to be up
by a little bit um a couple percentage
points from fall to fall. Um when we
look at our positive outcome rates, we
again see an increase over the last few
years. Um fall 2023 is our students who
entered in fall 2023. Their outcomes are
fall 2024.
Um, so that's the most recent complete
data.
Our iPad's three-year completion rate
for our firsttime full-time students
will be up. That last bar is in gradient
because the um some of those completions
will also happen in the summer of 2025
and that is still ongoing.
our four-year achieving the dream rate
which uses a bigger cohort. IPZ is just
our first time full-time. These are all
of our entering um HCC students
full-time and part-time, first-time and
transfer in. And as of the beginning of
this summer, we're even with last year
for our four-year completion rate, which
suggests that at the end of this summer,
we will once again show an increase.
Um,
our transfer rate, um, now our transfer
rate is really interesting here.
Remember that fall 2020 was the COVID
term. We dropped from having an entering
cohort of about 12,700 to an entering
cohort of about 9,000. What happened in
that cohort, as you may remember, that
was when all of the four years closed.
So, a lot of students who normally
weren't too sure they weren't going to
go go to college didn't. And the other
thing that happened is we got students
in who normally would have started at a
4-year but bulked at paying four-year
prices to be remote in their high school
bedroom, I mean high school home. So, we
think that the um fall 2020 rate it um
was all the way to 34% reflecting some
of that difference. What's really
heartening is that even though this
summer 2025 transfers aren't in yet, we
see an increase over the fall 2019 data.
So, we still see that increasing pattern
overall over the years.
Um, and um this is our transfer rate um
by time of transfer. Students do
transfer after that fourth year, but we
end the um we end the transfer rate
calculation at four years.
With that, um, I will bring Dr. Perez to
the stand.
>> Thank you, Dr. Bullrin. Uh, this part of
the presentation is just a recap of the
strategies and initiatives that we have
implemented to ensure that we have that
we achieve the intended performance
outcomes discussed in this presentation.
Uh as you seen before, we do use the uh
student success framework that focuses
on connection which is getting the
students enrolled uh entry to entry
getting them on the right path to
progress and completion which is
providing the necessary support to
ensure success through advancement which
is job placement or transfer. the
quality enhancement plan which is our
QEP strategies and outcomes support the
student experiences stages uh included
in the student success framework and
you'll see that that's how we set the uh
QEP set up you also heard about the uh
three uh general major general
strategies the caring campus for faculty
and staff uh the talent strong uh Texas
pathways uh HCC will participate again
this year uh and this our focus for this
year will be on transfer. What is it
that we can do to enhance transfer of
our students? And then of course we
continue to do proactive advising.
Uh one of the things that we've uh added
of course for for the uh academic
advising has been the virtual support
services which is made available to
students from all of the seven colleges
where they can receive information
regarding um admissions, enrollment,
advising and other support services
without having to go to a campus. uh
they are they are able to receive
real-time support from our staff in
person or virtually. Uh the other thing
that we created was that web page which
you've seen before where information on
college payment options have all been
consolidated into this one page making
it easier for students to understand
what are their payment options that are
available to them. Uh there's been more
focus uh and of course these are the
types of financial aid that we have as
well. There's also been more focus on
addressing retention by ensuring that
all students have an assigned advisor.
This includes the advising touch points
on uh on slide um 20. The goal is to
ensure that students are advised at
designated touch points during their
journey at HCC. Your approval of the
advising platform will assist in
tracking our students from entry to
completion. The advising platform will
provide up-to-date and accurate data on
tracking our progress with the
advisement of our students as well as
where they are in their chosen pathway.
Lastly, there is these are the hours or
these are our touch point of where
number of hours that students have
accumulated that we have to ensure that
they have in fact consulted with an
advisor. And then lastly, there is
extensive ongoing training of the
student services staff as well as the
faculty. uh special focus has been on
behaviors that show our students at HCC
cares both outside the classroom as well
as inside the classroom. This concludes
the presentation. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor. Thank
you, uh Dr. Pettis, Dr. Burgess. Any any
questions? Trusty Sheban.
>> Yeah, I think I've I've got one request
and then I wanted to talk about the
transfer data a little bit. Um request
is um and the transfer data illustrates
this really well. every time we talk
about data like this and I know it's not
fun to put big data tables in board
presentations but it would be really
helpful to have the full benchmarking
data set so that we can understand
better the context of these numbers.
>> Can you repeat that trusty sh
>> it would be very helpful to have the
full benchmarking data set that's
available to us that's part of the that
goes along with these numbers. Um and
and that that transfer data I think is
is a great example that if if that 34%
jump which you all remember I was
incredibly am and and still am
incredibly excited about is that that
goes from middle of the pack to leading
the pack in terms of performance. If
that was the result of a macro
environment that our competitors also
experienced and it 34% was now the
middle of the pack that should have
elicited a very different reaction from
us as an institution versus just the
absolute number improvement. So it's
still amazing but it would have elicited
a very different set of actions
afterwards if that benchmarking data you
know if it was available um if we had it
in that context and it could have had a
a a more holistic discussion around it.
So, I'll just pause and let you respond
to that.
>> Yeah, we would. We're very happy to
provide the benchmarking data. Um, one
note though is that the benchmarking
data typically lags a year to two years
be be um behind what we present here.
So, we're just starting to get in that
first transfer data, those first
transfer data points and and um we'll
probably have them, knock on wood, um
late later this academic year. Um, so we
we don't have an update to the prior
benchmarking data we've given to you at
this time, but we we'll definitely keep
that in mind and provide what we have
with these reports in the future.
>> Okay. Thank you for that. Um, I think
that the second item I wanted to dig
into and and I know Dr. Perez, you did
talk a bit about the interventions that
are planned to focus on that transfer
rate. Um, but I think for for folks that
are looking at the data, this data was
very likely eye openening to folks that,
you know, this is a big, you know,
upward change in performance and a very
key metric for HCC. And I think my my
fear here would be is that if you see a
big upward
um change in the data and then a big
downward, people say, "Ah, flash in the
pan." and then they go on to looking at
other institutions if they were, you
know, looking at it from a philanthropic
standpoint or a uh or partnership
standpoint. Um, so just really wanted to
key in here like how how critical it is
for us to to focus on that. So
understanding there's going to be a bit
of a dip because of the macro
environment, but focusing in on how we
can minimize and mitigate and then use
that as a strength to show that this is
a you know one point in a trend in
really exemplary performance versus just
one blip from a a COVID environment and
it kind of goes back to the normal trend
line. So um wanted to to give another
opportunity again to to you know how can
we really hunker down and and make sure
that students are supported and that our
staff and faculty are supported to
ensure that that any kind of dip from
34% that's the temporary phenomenon
versus the 30 34% itself being the
temporary phenomenon.
I think one of the things that we
already have decided that we we need to
really um really uh integrate into the
advising initially when students come in
is to talk about transfer. We have a
tendency not to talk to them about it
until later on in their program. We need
to start that from the very beginning to
to get them to start thinking about what
school you're considering and helping to
start making some decisions about what
where they want to go and why they want
to go there in terms of the area uh of
of major they wish to pursue. So, so
that's what we're doing with the with
this uh with this new initiative under
the Texas pathway is setting up those
processes so that we can ensure that
these students know ahead of time and
that we know how to better advise them
as they continue through their journey
at HCC.
I I appreciate that and one one final
reflection for me is very excited to see
how the new advising platform plays into
this. Appreciate you calling that out as
a as a big win for the institution. I
think it would be helpful that as you
start to generate proof points on how
effective that software platform has
been in driving, you know, student
outcomes and these numbers be good to
share that back with us just so that we
we can see the impact of our IT
investments at work.
>> We definitely will.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you all. This uh concludes this uh
committee meeting uh which is adjourned
at 1:25 p.m.
>> You
This is a call to order for the audit
committee. The meeting of the audit
committee for August 6, 2025 will now
come to order at
>> 1:30 p.m.
>> This meeting was called for the purposes
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. The other committee members are
trustees Renee Patterson, Monica Flores
Reichart, and trustee Lu Davies.
Opportunity for public comments. A
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
hearing of citizen form 24 hours prior
to meeting and file said application
with the board services office. There
are no citizens who signed up to speak
before the audit committee today. We
will now discuss item A internal audit
status report. This is a report item. No
action is required. Chancellor Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much madam chair, members
of the board committee. This is as the
chair said a discussion item and as you
know the internal audit department
charter and board policy CDC local
require the internal auditor to meet
regularly with the audit committee to
review audits performed audits in
progress future audits and sufficiency
of department resources and with your
permission madam chair Mr. Terren Corgan
will provide the report and answer all
questions Mr. Corgan.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you chancellor.
>> Thank you. Uh
good afternoon. Uh
so uh as the chancellor indicated this
is a standard uh quarterly report that
we do on the status of the audit plan.
So the audit plan is uh for fiscal year
2025.
So the presentation will summarize
internal audit uh status information. uh
we'll talk about follow-up observations
on on previous reports, external audit
reviews uh that have been done on ACC in
this time period and we'll basically
give our statement of independence and
and and
non-impairments u and and no scope
limitations.
So we have three audit projects that are
in the finalization stage right now. Uh
it disaster recovery and under
procurement we're finalizing the
cooperative contracts and blanket
purchase orders uh audit projects.
So in the future we're going to be doing
IT systems audits and and we're going to
do u internal quality assurance review
on our department which will carry over
into uh 2016.
Uh the title N audit that was in the
plan was cancelled uh due to uh the
administration previous administration's
uh title 9 uh rules never going into
effect.
Uh campus security and safety, we're
still working on uh ACC is still working
on a program for campus safety and
security.
Uh so in your package you have um the uh
audit observation follow-up status
report. It indicates all the
observations that we have still uh we're
still tracking. Uh it'll indicate status
of whether they've been completed or if
uh they're still in progress in an
estimated completion date. um
McConnell's and Jones report as that
audit happened about three years ago.
They had 19 recommendations on grant
processing.
Uh we have finally completed the last
recommendation which was to automate our
um grants processing
uh process and I understand we went live
on that uh in June. So that that
automation process is as I understand it
is for state and federal grants and
automates the process for those.
All right. So
uh I guess after I finish all my
presentations today forest majour will
give their audit plan for uh the
financial statements audit uh for this
fiscal year. Um and so we had a
regulatory imposed uh review. It was a
compliance monitoring desk review of our
Texas ed educational opportunity grant
and they had no observations
uh in their report.
Um, and as I say, uh, basically we're
going to be given the statement every
time that, uh, our internal audit
function has experienced no independence
impairments and andor scope limitations.
So, everybody at ACC has been very
cooperative
with uh, helping us execute our audits.
And that's my status report. Uh, I'll be
happy to answer any questions.
>> Committee members, are there any
questions?
>> Excellent. Thank you. Outstanding. Is
there a motion to pro approve item B,
fiscal year 2026, internal audit plan
for approval?
>> So moved.
>> Is there a second?
It has been moved and seconded. We will
now have discussion on the item.
Chancellor Ford Fischer,
internal audit plan B.
Thank you very much, Madame Chair,
members of the board committee. This
item is recommended to the board to
approve the fiscal year 2026 internal
audit plan. And if there are questions,
Madam Chair, Mr. Corgan is prepared to
respond. Thank you.
All right. So, the internal audit plan
for 2026.
Um I'm I'm going to go over the plan
development considerations, the project
types and uh the planned projects.
So
we give into consideration these 10
items uh that I have listed here in our
presentation.
uh
all the executive management of HCC
uh were interviewed uh 24 interviews by
uh
Mr. uh Robert McCracken and myself in
doing an enterprise risk assessment for
the year. uh basically our our tool that
we use to analyze risk has 239 risk in
it and then we try to narrow it down to
the top risks that we consider and
that's what we try to focus on in
developing our audit plan. Uh so we we
consider all these things uh whatever
use of external consultants we use,
external audits uh and then we have
organizations that do top 10 educational
risk that we can look at and then we
want to comply with the um institute of
internal auditors international
professional practice framework. We also
take into consideration what the Texas
Internal Auditing Act requires us to do
an internal audit. And then uh we try to
align our uh plan with ACC strategic
priorities.
And so the the the plan uh is attached
in your package that uh we're asking you
to approve.
So the project types I have broken out
this year. Uh I used to put the
information technology audits under
operational
but now I've broken it out. So now we
have operational, we have compliance
audits, information technology,
advisory services, administrative work
we need to do and then observation
follow-up that we need to do. Um a lot
of times the operational
compliance and information technology
are end up being hybrid audits that we
look at all three.
So under operational
um
I mean you you can't be an internal
auditor in our uh internal audit
department if you can't handle uh doing
a brand new audit from scratch. And in
this year's plan, we have some of those
that can make uh some internal auditors
very nervous. Uh so we're going to try
and look at our our minors on campus and
how we manage that. Uh we're going to
look at policing. Uh we're going to the
plan has quite a few things uh that
we're going to look at in policing
uh which we haven't looked that much
into in the past but uh in policing they
they're going to be doing a lot of
upgrade of systems and automation and
and uh new equipment
um cameras and other things. Um so uh
we're going to take a look at that. Uh
in compliance, this is fairly normal. We
do three colleges each year where we
look at the safety and environmental uh
compliance uh mainly in the labs and and
um
OSHA requirements and fire protection
things like that. And then uh we want to
take a look here again this would be
with the police department. We want to
look at uh our compliance with Clearary
Act reporting.
So information technology uh going to
look at we're we're pretty much looking
at IT disaster recovery every year now
and and business continuity. Uh there's
a lot of topics under that. Uh one thing
that we're doing now is uh TAC 202.
That's a regulation uh Texas regulation
that requires our IT department to do
audits basically on their data security
and cyber security and it has uh special
things that you're supposed to do and
and so we're going to help them with
that which we've been doing in the past
but now we're going to make a uh
conscientious effort to document that we
are reviewing TAC 202 things and over a
two-year period we intend to cover all
TAC 202 requirements and so and then
we're also going to look at uh IT
systems audit
uh under advisory services
probably um some of the things you're
more interested in is uh we're going to
go ahead and look at our fiscal year
2025 spending on contracted services.
We'll do an analysis on that. That's
makes up typically about 8% of HCC's
expenditures for the year. Uh it's
second to payroll in category of
expense.
Uh and then we want to look at uh less
than $100,000
payments. Uh as you know, uh payments
under $100,000 need no board approval.
And so it'll give you an idea of what
we're spending under $100,000.
Uh we we going to try and help with
procurement efficiency and look at that.
And then we this would be involving the
police department again under HB33.
Uh that's a new regulation that's going
to go into effect on active shooter and
campus security that we're going to be
required to comply with. So, we want to
look at our preparedness for that. We
want to continue monitoring web website
accessibility.
And then there's uh Senate Bill 37,
faculty senate restruct reconstruction.
So, we want to make sure we put that
into place correctly.
administrative. Uh the main thing there
uh these new standards, well the
standards have always required us to do
a quality assurance assessment. So uh
but uh we're going to make sure we're
when we do our internal quality
assurance assessment on our department,
we're going to make sure we're in
compliance with the new global standards
that we've been putting in. And so we'll
spend some time making sure that we have
the new global uh internal audit
standards uh completely transitioned to
and then we'll uh as always we'll follow
up on observations. As anybody who has
experienced an internal audit knows, we
do not drop an observation in the uh the
action plan to to resolve any
observation we have until it's been
completed. So it gets tracked until
completed. And so that's uh the other
thing we'll look into.
So, with that, uh, we recommend that the
board of trustees approve the proposed,
uh, fiscal year 2026 internal audit plan
and be happy to answer any questions you
might have.
Uh, committee members, do we have any
questions? Are we ready to call the
vote? So, we're now ready to vote on
item B, fiscal year 2026, internal audit
plan for approval. Voting is now open.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of three to zero.
>> Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Carrian. Um
item C. We will now move to item C, the
internal audit strategic plan. So, Mr.
Coran, you still don't get to move.
This is a report item. No action is
required. Dr. Ford Fischer will
introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board committee. This item provides the
chief audit executives required periodic
review of the internal audit strategic
plan. And with your permission, Madam
Chair, Mr. Corrian will provide an
overview and answer all questions. Mr.
Corgan.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. So,
as you're probably aware, I've been
talking about it
all last year. Uh we have the new global
internal audit standards that that came
out and went into effect in in January
of 2025.
Uh under the new standards, it makes it
mandatory that uh an internal audit
department have a strategic plan and it
makes it mandatory that the internal
audit department
uh discuss that plan and review that
plan with the uh audit committee and
with management. And uh the main things
that are required to be in that plan is
what what the vision of the uh internal
audit department is the strategic
objectives of the department and the
supporting initiatives
uh to help achieve those objectives. Uh
and so the chief audit executive must
review the internal strategy with the
board and senior management
periodically. And so it's like a it's a
living document that can change over
time.
So what's included in the strategic plan
and I hope you had an an opportunity to
read through it. Uh so we have an
introduction of what a strategic plan's
all about. Um we have a link to internal
audit information which when you click
on that link it should take you to our
internal audit web page. you could learn
anything and everything you want to know
about HCC's internal audit department
there. Um it it has our what the
internal audit vision is. Uh our
methodology for delivering results
and then it talks about alignment with
HCC's institutional tenure priorities.
We try to keep those in mind in in doing
everything we do. Uh and then we have
our strategic objectives that we've
identified. And then we have our
strategic objectives. And then we have
our supporting initiative side by side
where you can see what initiatives we're
trying to take to achieve our strategic
strategic objectives.
And that strategic plan is in your
package. And like I say, I hope you had
an opportunity to to look through it.
>> And uh with that, I'd be glad to answer
any questions you have about our
strategic plan.
Thank you, Mr. Caran. Committee members,
do we have any questions? No questions.
Thank you, Mr. Caran. That was succinct
and this is a very good strategic plan
for our internal audit system. We will
now move to item D, the presentation
from the external audit firm on audit
approach and plan. This is a report
item. No action is required. Uh,
Chancellor Ford Fischer will introduce
the item. Thank you, Madam Chair,
members of the board. Professional
standards require external auditors to
meet with the audit committee to
communicate an overall audit strategy
including the timing of the audit
report. And so with your permission,
Madame Chair, I invite uh Dr. Sheri Han,
who is the senior vice chancellor of
finance and administration to come
forward and to make brief remarks and
introduce Forest Mear's LLP to present
the audit approach and plan. Dr.
>> Thank you so much, Chancellor and board
members. This is Erica Brown. She's a
senior manager at at Forbis and she will
discuss the plan for the coming year.
>> Okay, thank you. Um
>> Okay.
>> Okay, good.
Um I'm Erica Brown. I'm a senior manager
in our Houston office. Unfortunately, um
Angie Dunlap, the partner, cannot be
here today. So, um you just get me. But
>> no problem.
The board has seen the packet. So maybe
you just want to start talking about it.
>> Sure. Yes. And we went through this um
in detail uh with the board chair last
week as well. So um but if you have any
questions, you can just let me know. Um
but we want to just first off say thank
you um for letting us continue this
audit. Um it is a I think a three or
five fiveyear contract. So this is uh
year two of the contract. Um, and so,
um, we did a lot of this last year, so
it might look familiar. Um, but we did
just want to put our faces out there for
you. So, we have our engagement team
here, and, uh, most of this team was on
the team last year, which we're, uh,
really excited about. So, we will be
able to use the knowledge from last year
and and continue this year. Um, and so
the fir the thing that we're really
going to talk about today is really just
our the scope of our audit. Um and that
includes the audit of the ACTUER which
is the annual comprehensive financial
report of the college. Um it is that
very large packet that you get in
December. Um and there's a lot of
information in there. We will audit most
of that information. Um there are a few
schedules in there that uh we consider
not audited. um we do read them just to
make sure that the information in there
does not say anything that would
contradict what is in the audited
information. We also do our single audit
which is what we are doing right now. Um
and so we do a federal single audit and
that is in accordance with uniform
guidance and then we also do a state
single audit and that is in accordance
with Texas grant management standards.
Um so this year we will be looking at
the student financial aid cluster for
federal. Um and this is as of right now
if unless something changes I guess
through the end of the month um we could
look at more but we'll be looking or are
already looking at the SFA cluster and
then we look at the TEOG program um for
the state side uh which is also
where most of y'all's state money comes
from. So, it's a very large chunk. Um,
and so we do those in accordance with
GAS and GAGIS. Um, as well as the
uniform guidance and the Texas grant
management standards as I mentioned. Um,
I did mention that there's other
information in those financial
statements and we do not um do those.
You want to take that?
>> No, no, please.
>> Okay. Um, so our planned audit timing,
as I mentioned, we've already started.
Um so we did planning about two weeks
ago and then last week and then this
week we have been um doing our interim
financial statement uh our interim
testing that has mainly been that single
audit um and so we were on site last
week and then this week we were here on
Monday and Tuesday we will come back in
October so basically the whole month of
October we'll be doing our final test
work uh with the goal to finish
everything get the acter to a great
place uh before Thanksgiving and then we
will be back here um around December
3rd, whatever that that meeting is. And
then the acter has to be submitted to
the coordinating board by January 1st.
Um but y'all are not here on January
1st. So we always try to we get that out
um before they leave for Christmas,
which is about December 18th. Um, so and
we don't have any reasons to think that
we won't be able to meet any of these
timelines. Um, our planned audit scope.
I'm not going to really go into this
slide. Um, this is just a lot of words
for you to read, but um, I do want to
just mention the risk areas. So, we do
always look at management override of
controls. We mainly do that through our
journal entry testing. We also have uh
fraud meetings with a bunch of people at
HCC and we have been doing those the
past couple of weeks just asking them if
they are aware of anything. Um we also
look at the improper revenue
recognition. So tuition revenue at the
college is is kind of the biggest chunk
of revenue y'all have. So we do
procedures around that. Um we do also
look at the grant revenues. Um things
like state appropriations and the tax
revenues. there's not as much of a risk,
but we do do procedures on those as
well. And then there's that
non-compliance risk that I already
mentioned.
Um, we do just like to let y'all know
that we do use a third party. So that is
Harvest Investments. They help us with
our investment fair value testing. So,
we send HCC's investment portfolio to
Harvest and they use a different
valuation source and we compare it to
what HCC is using just to make sure it's
reasonable. Um, we've never had any
issues with it. And we do also like to
point out that the foundation is audited
by other auditors. So, our opinion, you
will notice that there's a paragraph
that just notes that the foundation is
not included in our audit. And then kind
of the final big thing this year is that
the um there's a new accounting
standard. Well, there's two actually,
but Gazsby 102 is is really more of a
disclosure only type thing that won't
really affect the college. But Gazsby
101, so that's going to be uh
compensated absences.
Compensated absence liability has always
been on the college's ACER. This
standard really just um enhances the
definition that was already out there.
It clarifies what should be in there. Um
and it also ensures that what they call
um salary related payments are included
on there as well, which would be um any
type of payroll tax that you're having
to pay. Um I know Sherry and her team
are looking at this standard right now.
um it will probably increase the
liability a little bit but I don't
expect it to have that big of an impact
on the college. Um the college also
already had a compensated absence
disclosure. Um so this really won't
affect that disclosure either.
Um, and then we do always like, we asked
um, Trustee uh, Van Dibble Stalworth
last week, but we always like to just
put it out there as well if y'all are
aware of any fraud or non-compliance.
Um, you can always you can say right now
if you want, but you can always just
reach out to us um, if you're aware of
anything as well. Um based on the calls
that we've had so far, we have not
nobody has told us anything. So that's
great. Um and um the last uh slide is
just a link to our quality report if
that's um something you wanted to look
at.
Um and I think our Oh, maybe it's not in
here. Um but yes, so if y'all have any
Yeah. Um but if y'all have any
questions, I can answer them now. Um or
you can always email us as well.
>> Members, do we have any questions?
>> I want to take a moment and commend uh
Sher Han's team and for Mazars. We had a
very very robust conversation. We
resolved a lot of issues that looked a
little bit muddy and we got those things
taken care of and we are very very
satisfied with this standard and what
we'll do. And from what I understand, we
are rolling that time clock back to
December 3rd, which is a few months
ahead of what we did last year. Correct.
>> Um, no, we issued last year in December
as well.
>> December. So, we started but we started
last year much later.
>> Um, last year we started we're rolling
we're pushing fieldwork up a week to
hopefully really get into Thanksgiving
done. Um, so everyone can enjoy their
holiday. So, thank you all for that
because that was really robust work and
it is greatly appreciated. Uh, so if
there are no more questions, we'll move
on to item E, the report on quarterly
control and compliance attestation.
There's no action required on this item
and we will hear from Chancellor Ford
Fischer concerning the item. Chancellor,
thank you very much Madam Chair, members
of the board committee. This is a
discussion item that presents a report
on the quarterly control and compliance
at a station and if there are questions
madam chair with your permission I
invite Dr. Montgomery who's the interal
counsel to come to the podium to provide
an overview and respond to questions Dr.
Montgomery.
>> Good afternoon, Madame Chair, trustees,
chancellor. Before you is the quarterly
attestation for the period March 1st,
2025 through May 31st, 2025. We received
one attestation for report to the board
regarding the current mitigation plan
that we would like to report in close
session of the special meeting.
>> So, we will we will hold that until we
go to the special meeting and we when we
adjourn, we will actually address that
issue. Yes, we will address it in
special meeting.
>> Perfect.
>> Okay. So, there's no current adjournment
to close our executive session. We will
take that into consideration when we
have the special session close session
meeting. So, there are no more items on
the agenda.
And so, the audit committee is now
adjourned at 1:59 p.m. Outstanding.
of the board governance committee for
August 6, 2025 will now come to order at
>> 2:30 Now,
>> this meeting was called for the purposes
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. The other committee members are
trustee Shan Chibin, uh, trustee Dave
Wilson and alternate trustee Lu Davies.
At opportunity for a public comment, a
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
hearing of citizen form 24 hours prior
to the meeting and file set application
with the board services office. Um,
there are no citizens signed up to speak
before the board governance committee
today.
Is there a motion to approve item A,
propose changes to policy FLA local, DGC
local, and GD local in compliance with
Senate Bill 2972 limiting expressive
activities on campus?
>> So moved.
>> Is there a second?
>> It has been moved and seconded. We will
now have a discussion on the item. Dr.
Ford Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madame Chair,
members of the board committee. As you
indicated, this item is recommended for
the approval of the proposed changes to
policy FLA local, DGC local, and GD
local in compliance with Senate Bill
2972 limiting expressive activities on
campus. And with your permission, Madame
Chair, I invite General Counsel
Montgomery as well as Attorney Mahalik
to the podium to provide an overview and
to respond to questions.
>> Good afternoon, Madame Chair, Trustees,
Chancellor. For our first item, we bring
before you today, revisions to HCC
policy regarding free expression and
free speech. As the chancellor
indicated, the revised policies reflect
changes in the law recently passed by
the Texas legislature under Senate Bill
2972.
Specifically, this amends section
51.9315
of the Texas Education Code. The
revisions allow expressive activities to
those individuals associated with the
college and also eliminates language
that require colleges to allow any
member of the general public to
participate in expressive activities in
the common outdoor areas of the campus.
Instead, we'll have zones for members of
the public. This policy requires
institutions to amend their free seeds
policies to add new time, place, and
manner restrictions, including specific
restrictions on noise and camping.
The institution's policy does the
following. Restrict amplified sound
during class hours and exam periods.
Prohibits bull horns. Prohibits camping
and erecting tents. Prohibits concealing
one's identity. Prohibits lowering in
the institution's flag and raising a
different flag. requires students and
employees to show ID when requested. The
policy also prohibits expressive
activities between 10 pm and 800 am,
which is really about encampments. At
this time, we are here to take any
questions. I also have Lisa Brown, who's
been assisting with us from the firm
Thompson Horton.
>> Uh, is is there an exception if it is
part of the actual
class?
>> Which part?
>> Any of it. Like I can see a play
happening where somebody has to wear a
mask that's concealing your identity. Is
that an exception?
>> Good afternoon.
>> The law here is focused on outdoor
common areas,
>> right?
>> And doesn't regulate the inside of a
building.
>> Okay, great.
>> But we did add language specifically
addressing a theatrical performance. If
uh a a group had on theater clothing and
including a mask associated with a
production, they could certainly walk on
campus carry or wearing that particular
item. As for indoor activities such as a
classroom, the regular rules that you
have regarding classroom disruption
would continue to apply in that
environment. And so, uh, the main
restriction here, uh, in the new law,
other than adding, uh, the noise
limitations and and that and encampments
and that sort of language, some of which
you already had in regulation. So, that
was simply moved to the policy to comply
um, with the law. The the main
difference is the legislature uh
according to the history uh of the bill
was very focused on making sure that
employees and students have uh the right
to exercise their first amendment rights
in outdoor common areas and that members
of the public uh also can in in many uh
uh
contexts also. but that the
administration will designate those
areas so that we can maintain uh
controls on disruption and and make sure
that classroom activities and the
operations of the college can um move
forward without too much disruption.
>> Okay, thank you. I just wanted to make
sure that we weren't touching learning
actual learning environments. Um, uh,
did we get any input from TASBY on this
when we were making it or
>> TASBY's update that will include these
legislative changes won't come out until
later in the year. I believe November,
December is typically when they release
that. And that's the reason I I think
some of these bills go into effect on
September 1st.
>> And so we were required to make our own
revisions. So when we get TASBY's
revisions, we'll we'll merge those as
it's as it's applicable or appropriate.
>> Okay? because we're paying for TASBY's.
Maybe we should make a comment like you
need to get on top of this before we are
legally required to do this stuff
because if we're paying for the input,
we really need to I don't want to do
this twice. I
>> agree. Um this has happened a couple of
times now and I have mentioned it to
TASBY. So, we'll work on making an
official comment to them because it also
happened with Title 9, SB17.
Um there was a governor's order last
year. So, it is something that I've
already expressed to our contact at
TASBY, but we can do something more
official.
>> Great. Thank you. Any questions from any
of my fellow trustees?
>> Seeing none, uh we're ready to vote on
item A, proposed changes to policy FLA
local, DGC local, and G D local in
compliance with Senate Bill 2972
limiting expressive activities on
campus. Voting is now open.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of three to zero.
>> Thank you. Is there a motion to approve
item B, proposed changes to CDC local
accounting audits?
>> So moved.
>> There a second.
>> Second.
>> It has been moved and seconded. We will
now have discussion on the item. Dr.
Ford Fischer will introduce it.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This is an item
recommended for board approval of
proposed changes to CDC local accounting
audits. And with your permission, Madam
Chair, Dr. Nicole Montgomery and General
Counsel will respond to questions along
with board counsel and internal audit
executive Coran.
>> Yes. Thank you, Chancellor. This policy
is revised to reference to the reference
regarding the internal audit department
charter. You may recall that at the
board meeting on April 16th, the board
adopted a new internal audit department
charter. Going forward, the policy will
always align with the internal audit
department charter as may be revised
from time to time by the full board.
We're here to answer any questions,
>> questions from any of my fellow
trustees.
Seeing none, uh we are now ready to vote
on item B, proposed changes to CDC local
accounting audits. Voting is now open.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of three to
zero.
>> Thank you. Uh is there a motion to item
to approve item C resolute approve
recision of policy DGD local and DHBB
local?
>> So moved.
>> Is there a second? Second.
>> It has been moved and seconded. We will
now have a discussion on the item. Dr.
Nicole Montgomery, General Counsel, and
Dr. Melissa Mahalik, board counsel, will
provide the overview.
Yes. For item C, we bring two policy
revisions uh recisions, I'm sorry,
recisions. With the approval of this
action, DGD local and DHBB local will be
removed from the HCC's policy manual.
Also, this will allow the college to
host our local policies on the TASBY
framework policy website, which allows
for more searchability capabilities for
not only ourselves, but also the
community and web accessibility. In your
materials, we show the language in the
two policies as duplicative of the
language that's already there in
existing policies so that you can see
very clearly that this language and all
of its uh requirements are already
captured. We'll take any questions.
>> Any questions from any of my fellow
trustees?
>> Seeing none, uh we are now ready to vote
on item C. Approve recision of policy
DGD local and DHBB local. Voting is now
open.
>> The motion passed with a vote of three
to zero.
Thank you. Uh is there a motion to
approve item D, faculty Senate
establishment under Senate Bill 37 and
approve BGC local?
>> So moved.
>> Is there a second?
>> Second. It has been moved and seconded.
We will now have a discussion on the
item. Board council Melissa Mahalik will
provide the overview.
I
>> I'll start Tristan.
>> Okay, that's fine. We bring before you
revised policy DGC local for your
approval that once approved will be used
to establish the faculty senate after
final approval by the board at the
August 20th, 2025 regular meeting. The
board policy is in compliance with SB37.
Specifically, I would like to highlight
the following. The faculty senate is
solely advisory and does not have any
final decision-making authority on any
matter. The faculty senate is prohibited
from issuing any statement or publishing
any report using the college district
resources, trademarks, or official seal.
The faculty senate consists of will
consist of 60 representatives and
ensures adequate representation of each
of the colleges and schools of HCC. And
then serving on the faculty senate is an
additional duty to faculty membership
employment and and are not receiving and
the faculty members are not receiving
any compensation or reimbursement for
expenses for their role as a member of
the faculty senate. I would now like to
ask Dr. Nicole Bhai Naloma to review the
election process with you in more
detail.
>> Good afternoon everyone.
So, as you know, we had already held our
elections for this upcoming academic
year. And in light of this, we did have
to go back and change our bylaws, our
standing rules, and and how we were
going to go forward. So, for the
upcoming academic year, we are actually
going to rehold elections. We are going
to open our elections on August 15th
based on those who were nominated last
year re-accepting their nominations. Um,
and so they want to be involved in this
academic year's Senate based on the
changes that have been made. If they
accept their nominations, they will be
on the new slate. This opens on the
15th. It will close on the 19th. What we
are hoping is after the uh uh board
meeting on the 20th, that slate is
affirmed by Madame Chancellor. Um, we
will fill any vacant positions in a
second round of elections on the tw 21st
um to seat our senate on the 22nd at our
4 p.m. meeting at the end of
instructional day.
We do have one amendment to the policy
in which the reference to librarians
that is in the section on the term. We
want to clarify that two members of the
librarians will be elected and one will
be appointed by the chancellor. And I'll
have Melissa clarify.
>> So that's at the bottom of page one. And
so the reason that librarians is pulled
out into a separate sentence there is
because they don't fall under the
colleges or divisions that are listed
below. But we wanted to ensure that
they're being represented in the same
way. So just like any of those colleges
or divisions, one of their librarians
will be appointed by the chancellor and
the remainder two in this case will be
elected to to participate in a faculty
senate. So they are considered to be
under the definition that is proposed in
this policy. They're considered to be
faculty which is consistent. There there
are varying definitions of faculty
throughout the education code, but
librarian is has been included in that.
I believe it's included in Senate Bill
2615, which relates to teleawwork. So,
it's it's not inconsistent with those
other definitions to include faculty
here. And I believe that's been the
practice. So, to stay with that as much
as possible, they're included here, but
we did want to clarify since they're in
a different sentence that that one will
be appointed and two will be elected.
And that language is not in the version
that you have. So we'd like to suggest
an amendment to this policy to make sure
that's clear.
>> So the number the number is not
changing.
>> Correct.
>> All we're doing is um
>> just clarifying that one will be
appointed and the remainder will be
elected just like any other college or
division.
>> Was it like that before? One appointed
or is that what statute?
>> That's what the statute requires now
requiring us to do. One appointed and
then two.
>> Correct. So, so the statute says Senate
Bill 37 says that each college or
division will be represented by at least
two representatives. One will be
appointed and the remainder will be
elected. So, um I believe HCC and
several other schools have proportionate
representation. So, those larger schools
may have more than two representatives.
In that case, one is appointed and the
rest of them are elected. And so, this
just follows that.
>> Okay. So, procedurally, do we need to
move to amend and go through that whole
thing?
>> Yes. Okay, let me just ask this question
first. Um, I just want to ensure that to
the extent possible, we have worked
together with the faculty senate and we
feel as good about this as we can
considering the parameters that we are
required to follow by the bill. I know
it's not anybody's dream, but um but
because we have these um these bumpers
in place, I want to make sure that we've
worked together and and feel comfortable
with the work we've done with this. Yes.
Um I will speak first and then I'll turn
it over. But yes, from the beginning the
task force has had broad representation
not only uh the district level but the
colleges and also the current faculty,
senate president and then the incoming
presiding officer that we expect once
the appointments are made and we have
worked very collaboratively together and
we've also already had meetings where
the full faculty have been informed to
get their input and their comment.
>> Okay,
>> I'll actually reiterate that. Um, I will
be I was very happy with the amount of
input and involvement from different
facets of the institution in terms of
this. I felt like we were all able to
have a seat at the table and and to
really discuss where some of the snags
were um and where we could kind of meet
in the middle on some things. Um there
has been involvement across the whole
time. I believe I had a conversation in
in May with Dr. Ford Fischer and since
then there's been an investment in this
and making sure that Senate does exist
um under the new guidelines. Uh but
faculty involvement has been along the
whole time. Okay.
>> And I and I really actually do
appreciate that and I want to say thank
you for that.
>> Okay. Um the only other thing I want to
say is I want to uh make sure that we're
prepared during the board meeting to
fill in. We're going to have all the
trustees here. This is a big change. So,
it's on the consent agenda, but if it's
pulled, I want us to be prepared to
present everything we need to to make
people comfortable with uh this kind of
joint work that uh I'm I'm happy to see
that we work together. I mean, I'm, you
know, considering what we need to do.
>> Absolutely, we will do that.
>> Okay. Thank you. Uh any questions for my
fellow trustees? Trusty Wilson. Um, you
know, I know this uh wasn't u uh a
creation of the faculty senate and uh um
it's something we have to deal with. But
as as a board member, I would like you
know
to get some feel for the faculty senate
and whether or not uh they can live with
this and whether or not we can make some
improvements or or what we need to do.
It's important, I think, to all of us as
board members that uh our faculty senate
isn't doesn't get run over by
legislation and things like that. So,
just could you comment on just a general
>> No one wanted this to happen. Let me
start by saying that no one wanted this
to happen and there has been a lot of um
debate, conversations,
um angst behind this because you're
you're exactly right. We we didn't want
to be walked over. We didn't want to be
forgotten. We didn't want to be put
aside for a year, you know, while like
other institutions are doing to figure
out what their Senate is going to look
like going forward. Um I believe that to
the best extent possible, all concerns
have been addressed in a manner that
meets the needs of SB37.
Um I've had conversations with Nathan um
and the executive committee as it stands
right now, and we know there may need
some tweaks, you know, in the next year
or two depending upon things because
maybe we didn't get something right.
maybe we we missed something and we know
that there's openness to have those
further conversations on behalf of the
administration as well as with the
board. Um so you're you're absolutely
right. This this isn't anything anybody
ever wanted, you know. Um but you got to
make the best of what we have and I
think that we truly have done that in a
manner that does show that we are still
HCC and we're still HCC proud and
faculty senate will still exist as we go
forward.
>> Thank you,
>> Trusty Thomas. I think um that's a
really good point that trustee uh Wilson
brings up and and the chair. Uh in the
end it's about communication because we
we can't get around statue and what's
required of us, you know. So, but as
long as we're transparent and we
communicate, uh in the end it is what it
is. So, thank you.
>> Any other questions?
>> Trusty Loretta. Uh not a question, but
just a comment that um I want to thank
our board governance committee because
they as soon as uh we got the notice,
they're the ones that decided that we
need to meet as soon as possible and not
wait till September. Uh and so I just
want to say thank our committee for
bringing this up and and working on it
and getting this far and and we're all
together. We're one family, HCC. So we
want to just work together again. Thank
you.
>> Thank you, Trustee. Trusty Chie,
>> I also had a word of thanks. Really
wanted to thank the faculty senate and
the faculty senators. Uh this is an
unexpected change. I think at there was
a time when we thought this had dropped
off the legislative agenda and then it
came back shockingly at the very last
minute. Um it was unexpected change. It
was a difficult change and it happened
as everybody was walking into summer
vacation. Um and the fact that the
faculty senate was able to rally and
have this constructive dialogue with uh
the board, the committee, uh the
administration, I think that's a
testament to the institution. Just
really want to say thank you to
everybody who who put their personal
time aside at a time when y'all all
desperately needed it after a really
tough and productive year to make sure
that we got this done before September
the 1st. Um I do have um two questions.
one um there's like the last paragraph
in SB37
um requires that each board um
affirmatively attest that these changes
have been made and that the faculty
senate as constituted complies with
SP37. Just wanted to understand the
timeline of when we're going to be able
to do that just so that we do dot all
the eyes and cross all the tees um and
that everyone is is on the the right
side of safe as we go forward into
September.
>> Absolutely. And so we are reviewing that
requirement. We actually got some input
from TAC this morning and so we've
reached out for clarification on that.
We'll continue to review that. If it
turns out that that is required that
there needs to be a resolution, it will
be on the agenda on August 20th.
>> Thank you. Just one one one board
member's opinion. If that's an ambiguous
thing, I'd rather veer on the side of
maybe acting when we don't have to just
to make sure that we're buttoned up and
safe.
>> Understood. No, I agree. The uh the
second question that I had is as y'all
well know this is but one of many um
opportunities that we have thanks to
SP37 to update our policies. Um it would
be helpful if if you can speak to it
briefly now that would be great. If not
we can wait for a future meeting but an
understanding of when those other
elements of SB37 might be coming to the
board.
>> Thank you trustee. There are other
components re relevant to SP37 and we
had preliminary discussion I believe on
Monday with respect to those and I
believe the date with not not in front
of me I believe that date is November
2020 what's that date again
>> the effective date January
>> it's no
let me go ahead
>> so that is correct uh the effective date
begins January 1 2026 and then the plan
is to come before the academic affairs
committee um to do a report item in
September.
>> Madam Chair,
>> so just I guess on that is again I'm I'm
not a lawyer, not a legislator, but I
did read the text of XB37. It sounds
like there's additional policy changes
that are going to have to be made. Um
that is beyond the scope of the academic
affairs committee. And again, this we
don't have to discuss these now, but
it'd be helpful to see kind of a
holistic mapping of which committee
meetings, be it this committee or the
academic affairs or committee, the whole
that those will intersect with.
>> May I respond, please?
>> Yeah, thank you very much. That uh is a
question that we addressed on Monday at
the chancellor's executive team meeting
and there was a question about how do we
move forward with the additional
components. one pertaining to the
curricula, another pertaining to the
board and the reviewers etc. of the
curricula. Uh obviously one of the
things that we found was that the task
force worked extraordinarily well
together and we decided that given that
we're going to need additional members
of our team who will appine on the
curricula to be a part of it that those
members of the task force would
recommend additional uh faculty and
staff members who would be included in
the planning with respect to the
curricula in order to move forward with
that. There was a timeline that was
discussed as well for each of those
components and it was decided that this
group would bring that back to the next
meeting and then we would provide that
information to the board in the WAB.
>> Perfect. So again, one one trustes
opinion. Um I know that there's a
component of SP37 that calls for a
review of certificates and um and minor
programs. I am very interested in seeing
how we're going to pursue that sooner
rather than later. I think that's an
excellent opportunity for this
institution to get a bit ahead of the
curve and maybe ahead of some of our
peer institutions in complying with
SP37. So just one one trustes opinion
that hopefully some input on how that
plan gets formulated. But thank you so
much.
>> Thank you. And before I vote, I just
wanted to thank Trusty Chibin for his
leadership on this. He's really been on
top of all the legislation that's passed
and everything and we couldn't have done
it without him. So I really appreciate
it. trustee. So,
>> before we go to the vote, and I
apologize for interrupting, just wanted
to make sure we didn't lose track of the
amendment.
>> Okay. Um,
>> Trusty, uh, Wilson.
>> Um, since you had an amendment, do we
have to vote on that as one then?
>> We're going to do um is do we have any
mo motions for amendments?
Uh can I move to amend the policy
>> uh to include
>> so for purposes of the minutes this will
amend the last paragraph on page one of
the policy and after to after the
language to include three librarians
we will add the language one to be
appointed by the chancellor
and two to be elected.
And I say just move to amend as
specified by board counsel.
>> Yes.
>> At the DS.
>> If if so I currently have a amendment to
the policy uh to the last to polic the
policy last paragraph on page
>> one
uh that one library librarian will be
appointed by the chancellor and two will
be elected by the faculty senate.
>> Correct.
>> Yes. That's correct.
>> Perfect. Thank you. Thank you so much,
Sharon.
>> Second.
>> Uh, it's been moved and seconded. Any
discussion on the amendment?
>> Yes, Sharon. Instead of saying faculty
senate,
>> it should just say faculty.
>> Faculty. Got it.
>> Okay.
>> And just for clarity, I'll repeat that
motion once again. amendment to the
policy
to the last paragraph of the policy
uh on page one that one library with
librarian will be appointed by the
chancellor and two will be elected by
faculty.
>> Okay, any discussion on the amendment?
Any questions? If not, we're ready to
vote on the amendment.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of 3 to zero.
>> Uh we will now vote on on item D as
amended. Uh faculty senate establishment
under Senate Bill 37 and approve BGC
local.
We're now ready to vote on the item.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of 3 to zero.
>> Great. Thank you. Um, seeing as there's
no other business, this meeting of the
board governance committee is adjourned
at
>> 2:57 p.m.
>> Thank you. Thank you everybody.
[Applause]
It's 30 minutes.
The meeting of the marketing committee
for August 6, 2025 will now come to
order at 300 p.m. This meeting was
called for the purpose listed on the
duly posted meeting notice. The other
committee members are trustee Adriana
Tamez, Pria Vanderal Sahalworth, and
alternate Shaun Chibin. A citizen
desiring to appear before the board of
trustees shall complete the hearing of
the citizens form 24 hours prior to the
meeting and file set application with
the board service office. There are no
citizens signed up to speak before the
marketing committee today.
Uh we will discuss item A, strategic
communications and marketing plan. This
is a report item. No action is required.
Dr. Ford Fiser will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, members
of the board. This is a report item as
requested to share a strategic
communications and marketing plan that
includes KPIs and metrics and that are
aligned with the strategic plan and
student success goals. And with your
permission, Mr. Chair, Dr. Reema Adil,
interim vice chancellor of strategic
communications and marketing for student
success and Mr. Todd Duplantis who is
executive director of communications and
marketing and Dr. Andrea Burrus vice
chancellor of planning and institutional
effectiveness will come to the podium to
present the presentation and to answer
all questions. Dr. Dill.
Thank you chancellor and good afternoon
um trustees,
members of the board uh our chair here
and um all other guests present today.
So today first of all thank you for the
opportunity to share this update on the
strategic direction of communication and
marketing team.
Um while we have provided a lot more
information in the slides, my goal today
is to provide an overview of this
presentation and how we got here, what
we are proposing. So we have reviewed
some SWAT analysis as it relates to
marketing and communication goals as we
designed it, collaborated it with our
RAD's department and our marketing and
commun uh communication experts team to
be able to craft this plan that I'm
presenting.
So right now with this new plan, we are
intentionally aligning our effort to
deliver student focus and datadriven
campaigns that directly support HCC's
institutional strategic plan through
clearly defined smart goals.
This strategy centers around HCC
strategic plan specifically student
success, community investment and
college of choice.
It will advancing student success
through increased enrollment, retention
and completion, elevating HCC's brand
visibility
not just locally but nationally.
It deepens our community trust through
transparent and impactful engagement.
So I do like to bring into our some of
the main goals that we have designed. Um
some of our goals primarily are
continuation of our marketing and
communication efforts but six goals that
we have aligned. Um the the main one is
student centered messaging not just at
the time of recruitment and outreach but
supporting them throughout their
academic journey. Datadriven strategy to
include KPIs so we can make informed
decisions. Innovation bringing in new
technology and tools into the work that
we are doing. And obviously our new
brand as a HCC City College. So brand
activation launching Houston City
College
website relaunch that is something that
is already ongoing and continued
community engagement and collaboration.
I do want to focus a little bit on a
student success as this is something a
new approach, a strategic approach as we
are moving in that direction that will
really allow us to be intentional and
close any gaps as it relates to student
success and messaging.
So, as it relates to student success, we
are aligning our communication campaigns
with key stages of the student life
cycle, ensuring that our messaging is
tailored to targeted audiences.
As we rebrand Houston City College, our
goal is not only to elevate the
institutional image, but also highlight
and enhance the student experience
to elevate their increase net worth,
employability,
and earning potential. We will amplify
student voices by sharing compelling
student success stories that demonstrate
the realworld impact of Houston City
College education.
I do have a couple of slides that we
included here for uh for your review and
any question that may as it relates to
these slides.
The next thing that I want to um focus
on is the KPIs. So with the help of our
institutional research team we have
really defined some KPIs what we can
connected them directly with the student
success. So again, continuity offer
community outreach efforts as it relates
to marketing and communication, but
really digging and getting into
connecting this data with enrollment,
outreach, student onboarding,
progression, completion, support and
including alumni engagement.
So the KPIs
um and the data that we have
we have highlighted here it will provide
us with some tools that will offer us
campaign success tracking through the
engagement matrix enrollment data brand
sentiment analysis and partnership
growth ensuring accountability and ROI.
This will allow our marketing and
communication team to make data informed
budget conscious decision and also to
make sure that we are in alignment with
best national practices.
So overall
this realignment is guided by a
strategic approach that leverages
emerging trends and datainformed
decision making enabling stronger
alignment with industry standards and
more effective resource management
through targeted outri out outreach,
compelling storytelling, segmented
audience strategies and real time data
tracking. The team aims to foster
meaningful engagement and support
institutional goals.
We are confident that this is strategic
realignment position HCC communication
and marketing function to play a
critical role in shaping the college
future enhancing its reputation and
supporting the success of our students
and communities. The plan is intended as
the foundation of new vision for the
communication marketing department.
As we realign our efforts, we remain
committed to adopting based on market
dynamics, community needs and
stakeholder feedbacks.
I know that I've not touched everything,
but the information as it relates to KPI
is on these slides. Slide number 16.
These are our proposed tracking
dashboards.
Um, some other relevant measurable
outcomes that our team has been tracking
and we do have a way to track. So, we
did look at our goals for next year. We
also looked at the data that was
currently available to us and we will be
uh tracking this information to look at
comparative data how things how we are
doing.
We have also included some uh pragmatic
ads KPI track tracking how we will be
tracking them from media impressions to
paid media, website traffic, number of
leads generated, comparative new visits
and clickth through uh rate on program
pages.
Um and lastly at the end we do have some
reports and outcome that was the direct
result of our marketing and
communication team um as they progressed
last year. And as you can see there's a
lot of successes that were that are
visible here.
So at this point if you all have any
questions please let us know.
>> Thank you. There any questions from
Trusty Chie?
>> Oh, thank you, uh, Trusty Wilson. So, I
I have a few. The first question I had
was it feels like in the deck Oh, so
first, congratulations on your new
assignment, Dr. Adil.
>> Thank you.
>> Um, in in the deck, it feels like we
skipped a step. Um, and I I was
expecting to see kind of a a highle view
of maybe those three or four messages
that we really want the full our full
community to really understand and
internalize that whenever Houston City
College is mentioned, they think one of
three things based on the constant flood
of marketing and communications that
they receive out from us across a number
of vectors. I was curious if you you
could speak to that. Do we have that
high rating? Is that yet to come? Um,
just curious for your thoughts. So
trustee th this is a very good question
and this is what we are working on
meeting with the team on daily basis to
uh to have that plan ready but I'm going
to let Todd speak to that.
Well, I think one of the things we're
going to do is uh we've been meeting
with the communications directors and
one thing we plan on doing is starting a
marketing and communications council.
We'll involve the presidents, the vice
presidents, the communications directors
so we can get this information and bring
it to you. Um are there three things uh
from that level? We will be coming from
that from that group to determine those
for you.
>> Thank you. that it it would be fantastic
to receive an update on what those kind
of highlevel um marketing messages are
at some once they're developed. Um you
know, Blake and I were having a a great
conversation before about the District 5
newsletter and about different messages
that we wanted to kind of thread through
the the micro articles that were
included in that and it just got me
thinking be great to align that thread
with the threads that y'all are thinking
the high-grade. Would
>> you like to address that?
>> Thank you so very much. I would like to
respond. When we were
involved in the visioning for the
strategic planning for marketing and
communications,
we knew that there were so many
wraparound services that HCC has
available for students that are missed
altogether in a lot of the marketing
that is done. So when you consider that
we have the digital access centers, when
we have the tutoring, we have student
success stories of course, but then when
we have the advisors, we have the range
of programs that are available
throughout our district. What we want to
convey is that whatever it is that a
student will want or need to advance
their education, their training, their
lives, HCC has it. So what we have then
we have students who are homeless.
So if there is a billboard or if there
is some desire for a student to come to
college to get a credential but does not
have a place to reside then we have
those services to support those
students. That is a billboard that could
conceivably change that person's life
forever. The next is if there is food
insecurity and there are family members
that are struggling to feed their
families, then if there is a billboard
that says HCC provides food pantries for
students who are enrolled but who are
having food insecurity issues, go to
each of our campuses. We provide that
for you. That is what's bringing in a
lot of our students. If there is a
student who needs online tutoring
because that person is working and we
can say that we have tutoring available
on campus and online at every pardon me
single program area that we have that
would attract students. So the general
theme is as we look at that strategic
marketing and communications plan for
student success,
the students need to know not just what
we have available to help them to
succeed in college but also it provides
that opportunity then for them to know
which programs there are, which
businesses and industries support us,
which students have achieved success.
And so if we have a student who has gone
through the engineering program and has
earned a great job and is now earning a
high income, then that can be a message
as well that is sent out that would
inspire other aspiring engineers. And so
that goes that continues. Now, there are
plans that are in place to determine
just exactly how we are able to take all
of those clicks on a website,
clicks on any of the social media posts
in order to capture those individuals
and then to convert those into
enrollments and then to student success.
and the members of the team can share
that with you as well as we discuss that
also in the planning session. But what
we have found is that there are other
colleges that are beginning to focus
more on marketing communications as well
as it directs their messaging directly
to students not necessarily to the broad
messaging but to intentional messaging.
So I think this is this is really key. I
think is going to make a big difference
and I would like for Dr. D to share
those clicks and what she's doing now
with the website because we know that
there are broken links on our website
that prevent students from easily
enrolling with HCC. So if you could
briefly discuss that Dr. Adil, I would
appreciate it.
>> Um thank you chancellor. Um so quickly
want to uh recap some of the
communication campaigns as as mentioned
by the chancellor. The some of these
tactics are discussed on page 9, 10 and
11. This messaging is around the student
success. Um, we might have done as
chanced previously generic messaging,
but there are tools available with AI
with with a lot of smart tools that is
really can do targeted messaging to the
audience whether it is programmed needs
or whether it is their uh individual
circumstances and based on individual
characteristics. Um it could be student
parents, it could be single parents, it
could be veterans, it could so there are
uh systems in place and current
technology allow us to really market to
what they are looking for. So that is
one thing I want to focus on. Secondly,
the as it relates to the the the
website,
um our team has already been working on
the new website when as we are bringing
that um uh the the new platform.
What we are doing, we have positioned
some extra resources to make sure that
we clean up our website um which was
scheduled to be done October, September,
October. we are pulling it up and we're
cleaning up. That is one of our urgent
um uh matter that we are trying to
resolve so we can really have data that
is uh removing any broken links and
doing our content audit. So that is
something that we want to do as an
institution in collaboration with our
campus leadership and our um leadership
at the district.
>> Thank you. There any other questions?
>> I do. Can we look at page 10, please?
These are the key audiences that we're
working with.
What are the current percentages of
students in these key audiences and what
are we aiming for?
Um that would be interesting to know and
the reason being is that each of these
audiences you have to have a different
tactic to reach them. The standard the
standard system that we've had in the
past no longer applies. Um, I was at an
event this morning, uh, young parents,
uh, at a at at the high school in my
district, uh, for parents who had
resource needs. And, um, they were in
line at 8:00 in the morning, 7:00 in the
morning, 8:00 in the morning for a 9:00
opening uh, for support for their young
children. made quite a few young
children, but the parents were young
enough to come to HCC for class and none
of them had been approached by HCC. In a
in a in a cafeteria filled with parents
and young students, I every parent I
talked to and I went tableto table, one
parent said she had her daughter in dual
credit and I thought that was really
that was really interesting. So, it
would be good for the board to know what
the current percentages are for each of
these uh key audiences uh in terms of
enrollment and what we're aiming for.
something that the team, the Central
College team did this morning, they had
a a Q code for students for people to
take a a survey on dual credit, but it
had a it had a a secondary value in that
they captured all of the data from that
person without having any of it written
down. I thought that was spectacular and
it gave them an opportunity. It gave the
Central College team an opportunity to
go back and cull through that list which
is now online and see what what the
student interests look like, what the
parent interests look like. Uh because
some of these parents had high school
kids, some of these parents had babies
from 3 to six years old. So, it was very
good to see that that uh Qode use. I had
not seen it before. Um, my third point
is on social media. Southwest College
has everybody be
have to say it. They have everybody be.
If you if you are playing a game,
Southwest College pops up on social
media. If you are scrolling looking for
something, Southwest College pops up on
social media. If you are going on your
way to a website, Southwest College pops
up on social media. They have they have
figured out a way to be everywhere. I
would say everything everywhere all at
once. They are actually incredibly
successful at it. If you can play an a a
nondescript game and HCC pops up,
that's a hell of a team. They have
figured it out. And that's not just uh
Facebook and Instagram. Um, and I
noticed we looked at some of the uh some
of the social media sites. We have X. We
don't have fan base on this site in this
in this system and we don't have Linked
tree. Um, and they're up and coming. I
think our greatest success on on
visitation is actually LinkedIn. I think
we have what 130,000 people in one group
on LinkedIn from HCC. That's pretty
impressive. Um, I do not know what their
demographic looks like, if it's if it's
graduates, if they're alum, if they're
students, or if they're people just
affiliated somehow with the HCC
Foundation. But it is it is pretty
extraordinary to have 130,000 people in
one group. That's a real extraordinary
perception. So, each of these key
audiences
have to be spoken to in a particular
manner.
one size will not fit all of these. Um,
uh, and at at South Campus, we did a
backpack drive and the the welding
students, they were graduating, they
were finishing up and there was a young,
there were two young ladies in the
welding class and they were pretty
extraordinary. And so I videotaped them
because I wanted to know what they
thought and they were very pleased. Uh,
I found a young man in at the in the
electrical. He was graduating with his
electrical certification. He said, "Oh,
no. I'm coming back for level two, level
three, two year." He said, "You know, I
thought it was hard." He said, "It
wasn't hard at all, so I'm coming back."
And he was driving 30 miles one way just
to do it. So, and they were young. I
think that the oldest I think the young
man I talked to was 25, the young lady
was 17, and she got two welding
certificates. So we are we are really
poised
to open the door for these key audiences
if we know what our percentage of
students are currently and where we want
how what how many do we want do do we
want to increase this by 5% maybe
returning students by 20% maybe lower
socioeconomic by 10% high school grads
GED um dual credit we've talked about
dual credit at Nauseium. I'm still not
happy that San Antonio could have 20,000
dual credit students and we do not. I am
I'm really not happy with that. Um but
to see this list, this key audience list
is excellent. Now, what does it look
like and what do we want it to look like
and how do we talk to them? because you
cannot talk to a dual credit student the
same way you talk to a multicultural
student, the same way you talk to a
lifelong learner, the same way you talk
to a lower socioeconomic potential
student. And I'd like to see that and I
know that you have those analytics. So,
we want to know because this board is
going to have to make a decision on how
our strategic goals are going to line up
with what this team is going to have to
do. And my toughest question is where is
the app?
App. The app. Okay. There's no app.
Students do things on their phones.
An app that they can fill out and they
can go into the system and they can find
their classes. Without an app, we're
probably missing half of them.
>> Right. And
>> thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And I'd
like to to ask um Dr. Burrish to respond
to the numbers and of course Dr. Dill
and I've had conversations about this as
well and about an app. But I'd like to
say in advance that Dr. Adil was
selected to become an ACCE fellow and
she's one of the fellows who will be
working in fact she flew back in this
morning from DC where they had their
first session and she has been um placed
at Maricopa Community Colleges to work
with them on a periodic basis. Maricopa
Community College District for years
have had more than 260,000 students
enrolled. uh she's had the great
privilege of having conversations with
them just recently and will be
interacting with them uh on a regular
basis. Uh in talking to the lady who was
chancellor there, uh she was really very
delighted with all of the apps that they
had in place, all of the strategies that
they were using, etc. So we have access
to that information now in partnership
with them and with one of our key team
members being involved in that
conversation with them as well. But with
respect to the data uh Dr. Burish will
address that and what we're doing to
respond to the diverse populations and
the diverse needs of our students.
>> Dr. Bur and we'll respond with the
percentages for the categories. Um we
have been looking at that data. For
example, for um parenting students, we
have one of the largest population
percentages of parenting students of um
institutions in the state of Texas,
which I believe is about 35% of our
students. Um one of the things about the
strategic marketing plan is these
populations have different needs at
different times. For example, a dual
credit student who's just deciding to
take dual credit um is a different
marketing meas um marketing campaign
than a student who's in the middle of
their dual credit career versus one who
is exiting dual credit and potentially
entering HCC. So, one of the things
we're doing with these metrics is
connecting this strategically to the
student life cycle and the strategic
plan, our student success plan to think
about how we want to message those
populations as they move through their
HCC life cycle for entry, enrollment,
um, continued success and then the next
steps. Um and so with that,
>> so trustee you provided a lot of
invaluable feedback and that is in
alignment with our findings and the work
that we have been doing. So I also
whenever I search something, Southwest
College is doing a good job. They pop up
anytime we look for something. um some
of the things so first of all we have
included all our directors communication
directors from the colleges so we will
be uh picking up the best practices that
are already being um uh utilized and we
will expand on them on uh slide six I
did mention in innovation bullet that is
the last bullet how the tools that are
currently available that will allow us
to really position ourself content
generation, ads, landing pages, video
script, all uh very um the targeted to
specific audiences. Predictive analytics
is no no longer new. So we are going to
be expanding on that. Um the retarget
website visitors through pixels. So when
they show interest and when they stop
and provide a impression we we know we
will be able to measure how many of
these students actually look at our ad
and came to our website. Um so those are
this is available on page six
page um 13 talks about different
audiences and I do want to um say that
as you mentioned
our different audience have different um
the the way of communication and how
they receive information. So we have put
down some of the information here. This
is just the start. This is not
everything but now that we have new
technology coming up which is advising
platform and we recently upgraded to
messaging through my oneflow. We are
really being targeted towards student
journeys and their needs based on who
they are. That work is being done and we
will continue to refine that work. Um,
you also mentioned a comment regarding
our um the the
our likes on our pages. That information
is available on page 20. Um, this is not
a full year report, but September 1st
through June 30th, we have this is on
pageuh page 20 and page 21 the breakdown
of our social media pages. LinkedIn has
137 uh,96
followers. Facebook currently have about
50,000 followers. Instagram sitting
11,500
and we also have Twitter X that we uh
are looking at about 12,000.
Um with this there's a lot of
opportunity to I know we have been
engaging our our communities and our
influencers
who make difference in the in the
communities to um help us get the
messaging out. But one thing we can also
be very intentional about this is the
time of influencers
especially social media influencers as
we try to connect to younger generation.
Um more than half of their awaken life
is on their screens. So that is a great
opportunity for us to explore and
expand. But um
>> well Dr. Adelf, thank you for your time.
We're we're starting to run over here
and I I apologize for cutting you off,
but I'd like to stay on schedule. So, at
this time, um I would like to u the
marketing K committee is adjourned at
3:33. We'll discuss this later. Thank
you.
>> Thank you.
Thank you. The special meeting for
August the 6th, 2025th will not come to
order at 3:33 p.m.
This meeting was called for the purposes
as listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. Uh, a citizen desiring to appear
before the board of trustees shall
complete the hearing of citizen form 24
hours prior to the meeting and file said
application with the board services
office. There are no citizens signed up
to speak before marketing committee
today
>> special
meeting
>> for special meeting today.
Oh,
okay. Uh is there so we we have a few
topics for discussion and action. So um
is there a motion regarding item A adopt
a resolution for name change to Houston
City College?
>> So move.
>> There a second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you madam chair members of the
board. This item is presented to
recommend adoption of the resolution of
the name change from Houston Community
College to Houston City College
maintaining the initialism and acronym
as it were that authorizes the
chancellor to take approved actions
necessary to implement the change with
registration and trademarks. If there
are questions, Madame Chair, uh with
your permission, Dr. Montgomery and Dr.
Burge will respond. Dr. Montgomery.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. Madame Chair,
trustees, at the June 18th regular board
meeting, the board approved the college
rebranding and college name to Houston
City College. Today we have before you
adoption of the resolution for the name
change to comply with regulatory
filings. With that, we will answer any
questions.
>> Thank you, trustees. Any questions,
comments?
Okay, I think that um we're ready to
vote.
Aaron, that's yes for me.
>> Received.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of 8 to zero.
>> Thank you.
So, we are now officially Houston City
College.
Is there a motion regarding Madam Chair?
>> Excuse me.
>> Yes, sir.
>> So, does it is the official moment right
now we quit calling at Houston Community
College and then we now start calling
Houston City. Is this the moment in
time?
>> Yes, we should. I I will just note that
we do need to do just some filings with
SAK COC and also the coordinating board.
However, Dr. Burge has already reached
out to them and that's a very simple
process with an email. Thank you.
>> You congratulations.
Welcome to Con City College.
>> Thank you. Is there a motion regarding
item B? Order calling for trustee
elections to be held on Tuesday,
November the 4th, 2025th and making
other provisions related to this
subject?
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the
board, this item is recommended to the
board of trustees for your consideration
to approve the order calling for trustee
elections on November 4th, 2025 in
trustee geographic districts 1, 2, and 7
for HCC.
If there are questions, Madame Chair, I
will ask for with your permission, Dr.
Montgomery, to respond.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. And I will just
also add in section 13 of the order,
we've already made provisions for the
name change for Houston City College
that will appear on the ballot after we
have those signoffs from Sachs and the
coordinating board. With that said, we
have election council here, Ben Morris
with the firm Leon Akala to answer any
questions as well.
>> Thank you. Trustees, any questions?
>> We've been through this. I think all of
us have been through it. Yeah.
>> Any questions?
We thank you for coming out and uh but
everybody knows what we got to do.
>> So, thank you.
>> All right. Um
so, now we're going to vote
vote on item B.
>> Erin, that's yes for me.
>> Received.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of 8 to zero.
>> Thank you. And um just um again uh
trustees one, two, and seven um we look
forward to you running a great election.
Thank you.
>> And returning.
>> Oh,
[Music]
it's a great election.
Okay, we'll move to item C. review the
tax rate adop adoption process for tax
year 2025th
uh year 2026 and review the calculated
and proposed tax rate. This is a report
item. No action required. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madame Chair,
members of the board. As you indicated,
this is a discussion item to review tax
rate adoption process for tax year 25
fiscal year 26 rates and to also review
the calculated new revenue rate and vote
approval rate. And with your permission,
madam chair, I will ask Dr. Sher Han, v
senior vice chancellor of finance and
administration to come forward to
address all questions and to introduce
our tax attorney.
>> Thank you, board chair, chancellor, and
trustees. I'm going to invite up the
Lenberger attorneys to talk a little bit
about the Lenberger process in the tax
rate approval truth and taxation.
>> Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is
Blair Riley. I'm actually the vice
president of truth and taxation for
appraisal and collection technologies.
So, I am not your attorney. Mr. Trey
Stone is your attorney and he is here to
make sure that I don't do anything
silly. Uh, no, I am not um a lawyer.
Very important when you work for a law
firm to make sure of that.
>> Well, we want to go through the slides,
so you'll just be clicking here to
advance and discuss what you see here.
>> Thank you. So, thank you for having me
this afternoon. I'm very excited to be
addressing the new Houston City College
Board. Um, I will have to obviously
update my presentation in the future.
HCC has been a Limeburgger client for
over 20 years. Our comprehensive legal
services and collection program include
every part of the delinquent collection
process including obviously the truth
and taxation process. We are a team of
professional collectors many of whom are
bilingual and our team is led by our
limebugger partner Trey Stone with
Ashanti Kasha your area manager.
So we're here today to learn about truth
and taxation. Some of you have heard me
talk about this before some of you have
not. So we're going to get started at
the beginning. The Texas Constitution
allows for four guiding principles of
truth and taxation. Your taxpayers have
the right to know about any property
value increases and their estimated
taxes each year. Taxing units, that's
you guys, have the obligation to
calculate and publish your tax rates
before you adopt them. Otherwise, the
tax payer can file an injunction and
stop the rate process. Taxing units also
have the obligation to publish notices
and hold hearings regarding the
increases. Otherwise, taxpayers can file
a different injunction to stop the
process. This is all about giving
taxpayers the information that they need
to be a part of the process. Voters have
the right to roll back the rate if it
goes above certain levels, which we'll
talk about shortly.
So, the six steps for truth and
taxation. First, you should draft your
budget. Next, we'll calculate our
benchmark tax rates. That includes the
no new revenue rate and the voter
approval rate. After that, we publish
our notices and put information on the
website so that the taxpayers can become
involved in the process. We will hold
hearings so that the taxpayers have a
voice in the process. You're going to
adopt your tax rate by the deadline and
if required, you will hold an election,
which will most likely not happen.
So I just talked to you about you're
going to calculate your benchmark tax
rates. What are your benchmark tax
rates? First you have your no new
revenue tax rate. That is the rate what
that will bring in approximately the
same amount of money as last year. We're
trying to compare apples to apples here.
So it we exclude any new improvements on
the role so that we can have an idea of
last year versus this year. We also
calculate the voter approval tax rate
that brings in the same revenue as last
year, but it gives a small increase to
account for inflation.
So you guys are a technically a special
taxing unit. You are a junior college
district. That means that by law you are
special. That means that you are allowed
to have up to 8% growth for your voter
approval tax rate. If you go above that
rate, you are automatically going to
have an election in November. So, we try
to stay below that voter approval rate
each year. If you have to go above that
rate in response to a disaster, you can.
However, this is the last year that you
will actually have that ability. After
2025, that ability is going to go away
and you will be limited at that 8% rate.
Just wanted to make sure that you knew
about this change for next year.
>> Say that again.
So
in the future, this year, this year, if
you need to go above that 8% in response
to a disaster, in response to a
hurricane that hits, you can technically
go above this year in response to a
disaster. In future years, you will no
longer have that ability. So you almost
never go above 8%, you are very um
conservative on that, and that's
wonderful. But I needed to at least let
you know that it is a change in the law.
your debt. You get as much money as you
need in order to pay your debt because
it's already been approved by voters in
your bond elections. So, the collector
is going to certify to you guys your
anticipated collection rate. Your
anticipated collection rate cannot be
lower than the actual collection rate
for the past 3 years, but it can be
greater than 100% for the purposes of
TNT if um depending on how collections
go that year.
So before you're hearing with the public
where you're going to adopt the tax
rate, you have to certify the TNT
worksheets. The first of step of that is
going to be designating your DOE, your
designated officer or employee. Um they
are going to be responsible for
calculating the worksheets. I suggest
designating two people. If some person
is sick, if the person is in a car
accident, if they leave halfway through
the year for some reason, it's always
good to have a backup dough. So, just in
case, always keep that in mind. They
will um calculate the tax rates and then
they will submit the no new revenue rate
and the vote approval rate to you guys
so you know what numbers you're working
with this year. Then we can adopt the
tax rates. You're also going to update
the chief appraisers database as your
information becomes available. You may
not hold a public hearing or adopt your
rate until at least 5 days after the
chief appraiser has delivered a postcard
for estimated taxes and all your
information is updated on their website.
So this is what the August CAD notice is
going to look like. The chief appraiser
is already posting it everywhere. This
is part of the process where the
taxpayers can have information on
what is going on with their taxes.
You'll see that on the chief appraisers
website. They're going to put when and
where you're going to have your hearing.
They're going to show the no new revenue
rate, the vote approval rate, the
proposed rate, and then each and every
person in your taxing unit can type in
their address and see what their
estimated taxes would be at the no new
revenue rate versus at the rate that
you're proposing. So, it gets them
involved. They can see exactly what
you're doing with their taxes. So before
you adopt the rate, you have to have
either a public hearing or a public
meeting. It's going to depend on what
rate you adopt, which you're going to
have. You'll publish your 2606 public
hearing notice if you're adopting above
the no new revenue rate or the voter
approval rate. Otherwise, you'll just
schedule a meeting to adopt the tax
rate. You must publish the notice in the
newspaper at least 5 days before you
have your meeting. Um, the wording
depends on what your proposed rate is
versus your no new revenue rate. Your
finance department will take care of all
of that for you. If you do not adopt at
that meeting, you have to adopt within 7
days of that public hearing. So, you'll
adopt, you'll announce the date, time,
and place of the second hearing at the
first one. Now, just a second bit of
information I'm pointing out because
it's a change in the law. So, we have a
72-hour notice for this tax rate
adoption meeting, our open meetings act
notice as of September 1st. That becomes
three business days. So, I'm you're
probably all aware that your 72-hour
notices now become three business days.
Wonderful. So, um you are going to have
to adopt your tax rate by September 30th
or 60 days after RO certification. You
guys always work with 60 days after RO
certification because um Harris County
Tax Office always certifies a little bit
late. If you're going to go above the
voter approval tax rate, which you're
not, you have earlier deadlines to work
with in August. You don't have any
intention about going above your vote
approval rate. So, we'll skip. So, you
will have a separate vote on the budget
and on the tax rate. If your proposed
tax rate exceeds your no new revenue
rate, one of those benchmark rates that
Udo just calculated for you, you'll have
a record vote. You have to have a voting
threshold of 60% if you go above that no
new revenue rate. And then you'll have
specific motion language and language
that's going to go on your website.
Other things that go on your website are
all included here. part of the process
of allowing the taxpayers to get in
contact with you and have a say on they
can voice their opinions on that CAD
database. There's a section there for
people to make comments, but also on
your website, you'll have the taxing
unit's mailing address, email, and
telephone number along with the name and
contact information for each member of
the governing body. You'll have the
budget for the past two years along
along with the percent and dollar change
in your budgets. and you'll have the tax
rates for the last two years broken down
by your M and your debt rate. You'll
also be publishing your most recent
financial audit on your website.
All about transparency, guys. We want to
make sure everything is up to date.
Other website requirements are will have
on the tax assessor's website. They are
responsible for having the last five
years history of all your tax rates.
Your adopted rate, your M rate, your
debt rate, your no new revenue rate,
your vote approval rate. So we can go
back and see. They also will have five
years of those truth and taxation forms.
All 80 lines of the calculations will be
on that website. Starting next year,
those forms will actually have all the
backup information as well as a
hyperlink. So each member of the public,
anywhere they are, they'll be able to
click on your truth and taxation
worksheets and they will be able to see
line for line where each number came
from, where you pulled those reports.
So, it's going to be very clear to
everybody exactly how we did our
calculations as of next year.
So, if we look at the TNT 2025 calendar,
we're already in August. So, your
collector has likely already certified
your anticipated collection rate and any
excess collections from last year. So,
if you collected too much in debt last
year, you have to give that money back
this year in the form of a lower debt
rate. So we try to make sure that our
debt calculations are fairly accurate.
You need enough money to you need to
collect enough to pay your debt, but if
you collect too much, it goes back to
the taxpayers next year. It's actually
really wonderful in that way. So by
August 7th or as soon as practicable,
your DOE is going to submit the rates to
you. The county tax is going to post the
TNT forms on the website and the chief
appraiser is going to publish um the
notice of estimated taxes so everyone
can type in their own property and see
exactly what their estimated taxes are.
We have the deadlines for the going
above the voter approval rate which
we're like going to skip because you're
not going above your voter approval
rate. Um and then by August October 1st
the tax assessor will prepare and mail
the bills and that November 5th is the
uniform election date. Now do you have
any questions?
One thing I did want to point out just
it's not in the slide. Um the Texas
legislature has reconvened for a special
session. They are focusing on truth and
taxation a little bit. So they have some
legislature that could be changing the
TNT process. At the moment they are
leaving you guys alone. They are
focusing on cities and counties and um
reducing their voter approval rates to
two and a half percent. You guys have
8%. So at the moment they're leaving you
alone but it's something to be aware of
that you might have some changes in the
future.
>> Thank you trustes. Any questions?
>> What is our M rate and our debt rate?
Do you have that Andy?
>> I do.
The proposal for this year is 9409.
Uh
different different slide.
Give me one second. I'll get it.
>> I just want to say that you did a great
job.
you know this information backward and
forward because you were great. Thank
you.
>> Thank you. I've been doing for 20 years.
So if you have any questions, let me
know.
>> Yes. Thank you.
>> So the for FY25 the total tax rate
0096182 the M portion. 081632
that was FY25 the FY26 budgeted that was
approved temporarily
0.099587
for the total
0086264
for the M and the debt rate continues to
go down as we pay off debt.
What was the debt is 03?
>> The the debt you're asking is 0.013323
for the for the budgeted approved rate.
The actual FY25 tax rate was 0.014550
for the debt.
>> Both less than 10 cents.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> Sure. Any other questions?
>> There's no further questions. And thank
you very much.
The next item is there a motion
regarding item E. Designate official to
calculate calculate tax rates for tax
year 2025 2026.
>> So move.
>> Madam chair.
>> Don't we have to do number item D first?
>> Yeah. Oh, was there a vote?
This was a report. Oh, C. Okay, then we
need to do D.
Okay, going back. Review the 2025
preliminary tax rate and announce the
timeline for the public hearing and
final adoption of 2025 tax rate of
fiscal year 2026. A report item, no
action required. Dr. Ford Fisher will
introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. So, as you
indicated, this is a discussion item
that we will provide that will provide a
pre review of the preliminary 2025
calculated tax rates and proposed
announce the timeline for the public
hearing and final adoption of the 25 tax
rate for fiscal year 26. And with your
permission, Madame Chair, Dr. Sheri Han
will come forward to provide an overview
and answer all questions.
>> Thank you again. So what we've provided
here is basically a summary of the
county timeline which you've heard
something about in greater detail by
linear. We just laid out what they do,
what the counties, both counties do on a
month-to-month basis. And then our
followup
is our proposed tax rate and revenue.
These are very preliminary estimates.
They were these were based on April 30th
data because we won't have property
valuations until mid to late August. We
are hoping by August 18th, but more
likely August 25th. And that sort of
falls outside of the board meeting dates
that we could get anything to you by.
So, we're hoping to get a revised
version of the tax rate to you and
possibilities by the the September 3rd
meeting. That'll give us enough enough
time to do calculations based on what we
receive because a lot of this is based
on what the property values are. We had
proposed uh a tax rate increase, you may
recall, of I think 3.5% in the FY26
budget to give us enough cash to operate
and do what we plan to do program-wise.
Um, and that was predicated on a 2.2%
roughly uh property value increase over
the year, but that was an estimate. So
we are kind of waiting for the real data
to come in mid to late August that will
determine the rest. However, we have
done a couple of option calculations on
in case our revenue is better than we
anticipated when we worked through the
budget. We had a lot of sturm and drang
during the budget discussions about what
if this, what if that because there was
so much unknown. If it turns out that
we're doing a lot better enrollment wise
and therefore revenue-wise than we
thought, we have a couple of scenarios
that we'll be proposing to talk about
with decreased tax increases in total.
So, we've taken a look at that and we
will continue to look at that. It's a
little iffy to come up with something
definitive at this point. It's too early
in the academic year cycle to know what
revenue might be. We just kind of took a
swing at it here and included some
analysis of international student
enrollment as well, just to give you
some context. But timing wise, we're
kind of not ready. It's not ready yet to
propose new tax rates, but we're working
on it. We're working on whatever data we
do have.
And again, our our purpose was to
ensuring that making sure that we could
do what we say we're going to do
programwise and marketing wise,
continuing sustainability of operations
um and addressing our the priorities
that are proposed and come up out of the
strategic planning process. We're also
just as a kind of a sidebar looking at
at a um an advancement in the timing of
a total budget for FY27 so we can get
over the issue of having you see just
slices of it at a time and an inability
to see the whole picture. But that will
require having information sooner,
working across the district earlier to
gather that input so we can propose
something. We can get your feedback and
continue to kind of fine-tune the budget
earlier in the cycle. still planning for
a June 2026 approval of the FY27 budget,
but we'll be much more prepared much
sooner with a whole package for you.
This is a piece of it, of course.
Any questions at all?
>> Yes, she
>> Yeah, I I appreciate you bringing up um
the the calibration we'll need to do
with our other revenue streams and how
that impacts the tax rate. Uh I'm
curious and I know that, you know, too
early in the process to share firm
numbers in terms of dollars and cents.
Um, but could you anchor us a bit on
what we're seeing in terms of enrollment
and how that compares to some of the
assumptions that we made in the
budgeting process? So, for example, I
think where we landed for international
student enrollment was either a 25 or a
50% reduction as a budgeting assumption.
Be curious to understand how that's
starting to show up in the data now just
so we can calibrate kind of the the
magnitude of the shifts versus our
budgeting assumptions that we can be
expecting. Actually, if if I have that
information, it's part of another
presentation on connect to workforce.
So, just give me one minute. I'll be
right back.
Dr. Buridge also has some of that
information as well. Um,
Madam Chair,
so we did take a look at what we've seen
as international segment growth.
Um,
it may be a little premature again to
quantify that precisely because we're
comparing it and I'm going to let Dr.
Bird speak as well. It we're comparing
it to last year when we might have seen
a drop that was artificial, an
artificial drop based on climate
conditions of the time. So, it may look
like we've had a a giant leap. I don't
want to base our revenue on that false
hope that that will materialize.
And we've been working with our
international students office and
looking at national data. Nationally,
international student enrollment is
projected to be down about 20%. Um,
looking at our preliminary numbers, we
do think we're going to do a little bit
better than that, maybe 5 to 10% down.
Um, we think that students enrolled
earlier this year than last year. So, we
we're actually up day over
year-over-year, but remember last year
we had barrel and so enrollment was very
late. And we also had uh more late
international um student orientations
which is why we're um conservatively
projecting at 5 to 10% down right now.
>> That's helpful on the international
front but I know student enrollment also
was you know generally projected to be
flatish. So are we are we seeing that as
well? Are we looking up down? Just
curious for early indications.
>> Early indications are we doing really
well for enrollment? We have a couple of
factors we were concerned about. for
example, PEL that um that the as you
know um the big beautiful bill did not
pass with those massive PEL decreases
and so that that um accounted for the
change in that p projection. Um there
still are some changes to some of our
students that we can't model yet because
in the next two weeks are when we're
really going to see the impact of the
students. But right now, we're up in all
student demographics by quite a bit.
>> All right. Thank you for that.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Is there a motion regarding item E?
>> So moved.
>> Second. A
>> official to calculate tax rates for tax
year 2025 2026.
>> So moved.
>> Second.
It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This is a
recommendation item. The recommendation
is to designate the senior vice
chancellor of finance and administration
as the officer to calculate the tax rate
information required under Texas Tax
Code section 26.04C.
Uh this is the recommendation of the
administration, Madam Chair.
Um, do we have a name?
>> Han.
>> Okay. Just wanted to hear it.
>> Questions, concerns? Nope.
>> Question. Weren't we supposed to do an
alternate?
>> Wasn't that the recommendation to have
two people rather than one?
>> That's what Larger recommend.
>> Okay. And so the alternate
>> in my absence it would be Dawn Stevens.
>> Stevens.
>> Okay.
>> She's very confident.
>> We will now vote on the motion regarding
item E. Designate official to calculate
tax rates for tax year 2025 2026. Voting
is now open.
Shar.
>> That's a yes for me.
>> Received.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of nine to zero.
Thank you so much. Thank you.
At this time, the special meeting is
recessed for after the committee of the
whole and we'll recess it at
4 4:03 p.m.
>> Thank you.
The committee of the whole meeting for
August the 6, 2025th will now come to
order at
>> 4:03 p.m.
The meeting was called for the purposes
as listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. A citizen desiring to appear
before the board of trustees shall
complete the hearing of citizen form 24
hours prior to the meeting and file set
application with the board services
office. No citizens are signed up to
speak before committee of the whole
topics for discussion and or action is
>> madam chair.
>> Yes sir. Uh it this is posted for 4:30
I believe. Is it 4?
>> You are correct. We you are correct.
This posted for 4:30.
>> So
the whole we gave additional we gave
additional time due to the length of
items that was scheduled for the special
meeting and with the close session that
was scheduled.
>> Okay. Then um
let me
Okay. Let me reconvene our um special
let me go back. Let me reconvene our
special meeting and
find my my proper wording.
Okay.
Close session is called to order on
August the 6, 2025th at
4:05 p.m.
>> Okay. Okay. So, we will go to close
session. See you back shortly.
We'll
now adjourn to a closed or executive
session under the Texas Government Code
sections 551.071,
551.072
and or 551.074
of the open meetings act as stated in
the notice of this meeting. Should any
final action vote or decision be
required for the opinion of the board on
any matter considered in closed
meetings, such final action, voter
decision shall be taken up in the open
session portion of this meeting or in a
subsequent public meeting upon notice
thereof.
The meeting is adjourned to close
session at
>> 4:06 p.m.
>> 4:06. Thank you.
[Applause]
The open portion of this meeting of the
special
the open portion of the special meeting
of Houston City College System Board of
Trustees is reconvened at 4:30 Ma'am,
>> are you know where I left mine?
>> The special meeting is now adjourned at
>> 4:30 p.m.
Thank you everyone.
>> Thank you.
The committee of the whole meeting for
August 6, 2025th will now come to order
at 4:31 p.m.
>> This meeting was called for the purposes
as listed on the duly posted meeting
notice.
Opportunity for public comments. A
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
hearing of citizen form 24 hours prior
to the meeting and file set application
with the board services office. No
citizens are signed up to speak before
the committee of the home.
At this time I'd like to take a personal
privilege to ask you for a a moment of
silence. We have lost some community
members, community leaders uh this week
and uh then we have others that have
been ill. So I just like for us to do a
moment of silence,
please.
Thank you.
Topics for discussion and or action. We
only have two items. Is there a motion
to approve item A, approval of funds for
the Connect to Workforce Initiative?
>> So move.
>> Second.
>> Thank you. It has been moved and second.
Dr. Ford Fischer will introduce the
item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. At the June 2025 board meeting,
the administration was asked to bring
forward a proposal that would serve as
an alternate plan for a reduction in
tech fees that would support students
financial ability to enroll at HCC.
The plan that is brought forward for
your consideration of approval is called
connect to. And with your permission,
Madame Chair, our two senior vice
chancellors will present the proposal,
provide an overview, and answer
questions. Thank you, Dr. Perez and Dr.
Han.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. Madam Chair and
trustees,
you we while we appreciate the uh the um
the approval of the funds for Houston
Reconnect, we also feel that there's a a
a a
group of students that that also could
benefit from financial assistance. So
that's the idea of connect 2 came about
in the discussion regarding enrollment
and retention and how to address the
challenges our students face that are
financial that may impede them from
completing their educational goals. So
connect two would provide
financial support to students that are
working towards an industry recognized
credential or a selected workforce
program.
uh whether it's a continuing education
short-term training program program or
whether it's a workforce level one or
level two certificate
or even an occupational skills
certificate.
We've identified five high demand areas
that we believe that uh
would definitely assist our students and
those areas are digital information
technology, spark manufacturing,
transportation, health sciences and
construction.
These students could be
students from
uh seeking to upskill.
Uh these could also be dual credit
students that started with us uh and
graduated this past year and didn't
complete their certificate um and we
would like to get them back at HCC. Or
they could also be students that are
seeking those short-term uh continuing
education training courses that are
currently not covered by financial aid.
Uh if you recall under the new uh uh
legislation that was passed uh the
federal uh the our our US Congress
passed the federal legislation regarding
federal financial aid for 2627
that's going to start covering the uh
continuing education short-term training
program financial aid but that would not
be implemented until uh 2627 I'm sorry
272 uh 28 eight if if
>> 2627 that is correct. So what we want to
do is also get ahead of the game by
beginning to offer the connect two these
connect to funds to those students who
right now would not qualify for that
financial aid. We do have have been
using tay but those funds are also very
limited. So at this time I'm going to go
ahead and turn to Dr. Han who will talk
to you a little bit about the financial
aspects of connect to.
>> Thank you so much Dr. Perez. I will just
move this slideshow along. This we
considered this sort of a um the other
book end you know of Houston Reconnect
was to older learners you know above 25
years of age and who had stopped out. We
consider this sort of the compliment.
It's students who might be here or
thinking about coming here in a younger
age bracket perhaps.
Um, and this fits in nicely with our
financials because it doesn't jeopardize
our day's cash on hand as much as 30
million or 10 million might have. So,
that made me really happy. So, at this
point, we're looking at a million dollar
investment one time and we would treat
this as a pilot test um and find out
whether short-term completion results do
match our expectations. It would be
offered through the fi financial aid
channel, not through the foundation. Um
and again it would be offered to
eligible students in high se in selected
high demand workforce programs but with
without many other delimitations. They
would have some financial need or just
want to be in one of those programs. Uh
and it would be offered until funding is
no longer available. We don't want to
see this we don't know if it's going to
work as we expect. So we don't want to
see this as a perpetual scholarship
program yet. So first come first serve.
We're thinking that we may divide it up
5 million for each long semester just to
make it a little fairer that the spring
students get the benefit as well. Here
is what we looked at in terms of actual
numbers uh for FY25. So those are the
five subject matter areas and the totals
of the students involved at each level
of award.
Um at one point we also looked at um
associate degree students but we felt
that the return on that would take much
longer and might be questionable. We
don't know what the state uh funding
might be in the outy years. So it seemed
like a little riskier. So we limited it
to shorter term
programs still in a high demand field
however. So those were the actuals. Then
we took that 3303 and we projected out
what we are hoping to see in FY26. Big
emphasis on selling the ICLC's and OSAs.
Huge increase. We we think we can do it
um for the semester credit hours. We
also think that's possible. So we're
looking at moving from 3,300 roughly
students this year to 4,700 next year.
and they there would be a handsome
return if we could achieve this because
again it's just a million dollar
investment and we'd make almost $5.5
million in return.
So financially it's it's safe and it
looks like it could be promising.
I asked the question, okay, money out
the door. What are we going to do to
track it? Because you know I care a lot
about every penny that goes out of here.
And what I heard back, I liked it was
going to check on the number of students
who applied, who were offered
scholarships, who actually enrolled, how
successful they were in their courses,
what the retention was fall, and then
fall to fall. And actually, the
completers, the completers is what makes
my heart sing because that's what brings
money back.
So, any questions? We'd be happy to
entertain.
We're we're ready to launch this
whenever you say go. Trustees, any
questions?
>> What is DIT? I'm sorry.
>> Data information technology.
>> I asked the same thing. So, you're not
alone.
>> It's digital.
>> Digital. Yeah. So close.
>> She
>> digital information technology.
>> So close.
>> So, so I appreciate y'all bringing this
forward. I appreciate the limited scale
and the the spirit of the pilot. Um, it
made me think of two things. Um, as you
know, both reviewed the the content
beforehand and you were talking. one um
pilot begets a follow on, right? And so
um you could also say reconnect as a
pilot just at a a slightly grander
scale. So, I think going into the next
budget cycle, it would be helpful to be
thinking through kind of the next step
as we start seeing the revenues from
Reconnect and Connect 2 hit the books,
how we're going to use that kind of
paying it forward to either expand
access to those programs or to use, you
know, as a as a you know, revenue adder
to other existing programs. just
understand how we're going to continue
to build on that success. Um so that we
can be every year kind of expanding
opportunity, you know, using it to to
get more and more and more.
>> Um so that was number one. Number two,
um
>> we you as you mentioned before, Dr. Han,
we uh had some pretty um aggressive
conservative um budget assumptions when
we approved the budget in the in the
spring. Um, and just I want to make sure
like this this is a good idea, but I
want to make sure that we don't kind of
chunk away at potential in additional
than planned revenue 1 million at a
time. I think it would be helpful in the
near future to have kind of a holistic
view of, you know, some of the um
program oriented spend that was cut at
the last minute or um some of the
deferred maintenance high regrets that
we had to cut because we were nervous
about revenues this year. So rather than
chunk one, you know, this program here,
that program there, let's take a
slightly more holistic view about where
either we would want to invest or
potentially even where we'd want to
reduce the tax rate. Um, so that we're
taking a more programmatic approach to
allocating that the hopefully excess
revenue that we'll benefit from.
>> Well, the only concern I would have
there, and I understand what you're
saying, and there'll be paragraph two
after I get this first one out, is we
shouldn't really be using reserves for
operational costs. So that I cringe a
little bit when you say deferred
maintenance because that's sort of an
operational cost unless it was, you
know, a building caught on fire, a big
emergency, something crashed and burned,
we would need those funds. Um, the other
point I'll make going out here on a
limb, we are starting to plan for the
FY27 budget cycle now because we want to
start it much sooner and gather inputs
in a more holistic way so that when the
board sees the budget, they see all
parts of it at first. And we will
emphasize it's very drafty.
It will change over the months, but you
will have a whole view over several
months that you can feedback on. We'll
present it again, feedback on, present
it again. So you have a chance to work
on the whole thing al together. I think
that'll give you a great opportunity to
see this weave in.
>> Yeah. Just just one response. Um I
appreciate your concern about continuing
to dip into the the reserve balance for
operational items. I'm 100% in agreement
with you on that. And the more that we
can use this moment in time to pivot
ourselves toward using revenues for
operating cost versus dipping into to
the revenue B or reserve balance, that
would be a good thing. So, thanks for
calling that out.
>> Thank you. Thank you,
>> Madam Chair.
>> Thank you. Yes, your mic guard.
>> Um, I I really like that y'all are
taking an innovative approach to this. I
I I'm I'm really I'm excited about and I
like the fact uh like Trusty Chie said
that it's a pilot program that we can
see how it goes and really and that we
are measuring results. I expect nothing
less from you uh uh Miss Han because you
know we want to see exactly what's
working, why it's working and all of
that in order to make things broader.
So, uh, I'm I'm very pleased with this
presentation because it is something new
and something that's really going to
help our students directly. Thanks.
>> Anyone else?
Well, I'm also um I'm I'm glad to hear
that, you know, we're trying to do
something for our students and helping
them uh because we've been out there in
the community and uh again, the number
one concern is how are they going to be
able to pay their their fees and um so
I'm just um
if we approve it, then how soon or how
are we going to reach out to the
students so that they can so they can
take advantage of this and is our the
different personnel at the all the
college going to know this information
so again how are we going to reach out
to the students to inform them of it
>> I can yes chancellor
>> thank you very very much is through our
strategic communications and marketing
plan in fact starting immediately uh Dr.
Deal uh Mr.
um Duplantis and other members of the
team will start working with the college
uh vice presidents, deans and presidents
to start looking at the outreach that
can be done in order to address the
students. And then of course there will
be a decision that will be made as we
collaborate whether or not it's 500,000
for the first semester, 500,000 for the
next semester or whether or not they
want to launch all of that at one time.
And so we'll share that information with
you also on the WAB. But this will be
decided upon and we're going to move
forward expeditiously the same way we
did with Reconnect as well. And we've
already found out from the community
town hall meetings or the partnership
meetings, pardon me, from those
community partnership meetings that
there are students who are eager to
enroll. If they're asking now about
Houston Reconnect, how can I be a part
of that right now? And so I'm really
absolutely confident that with this new
initiative that we will not have
difficulty getting students who will be
interested in going into these programs
for the short-term credentials of value.
And that will be working through our
colleges and through the advisory
committees because we're certain also
based upon our discussions that there
are advisory committees with the various
companies that we work with that would
be more than delighted to help identify
and recommend persons who work at their
companies to take advantage of this
opportunity.
>> Thank you. um really excited about it
and you know I know when I ask a
question it opens up more questions but
I need to find out on this the
transportation could you give us an idea
of how transportation's going to help I
know we've been reaching out uh Trusty
Vanderbilt and myself have been reaching
out to Metro so is this going to be part
of it to help
>> absolutely
>> wonderful yes and of course there's a
flyer that was developed that will be
going out the CEC met on Monday and
approved approved the plan. So, you
cared to address that. Dr. Horn,
>> would love to. Would love to. As a
matter of fact, I had reached out to the
Metro contact on her vacation and she
answered. So, that was a good thing. We
were waiting for them to develop a
contract since this is a new program for
them. They weren't quite ready for us to
be as ready as we are. We originally
started out, I'll be really brief, with
a $69,000 cost. Everyone in a group felt
that was maybe excessive. We reduced it
to $23,000. So a 66% cut. We did that in
a collaborative way. Um what it amounted
to was the six colleges, the
brickandmortar colleges, each would get
batches of a 100red discounted cards. We
would now the difference is students got
a discount previously under the old
plan. They would still get a 50%
discount under the new plan, but we
absorbed the cost of activating the
cards $2 each and and subsidizing or
sponsoring the card. So this amount of
sponsor sponsorship we limited compared
to our first view. So students would get
four free rides with that discounted
card. It would follow the same
implementation plan that we used for the
old Q card which is already in place. So
we're ready to go. We're now just
waiting for a contract approval through
through legal. We're ready you. Any
other questions, concerns? Not then
we're ready to vote on item A, approval
of funds for the connect to workforce
initiative.
I
>> Trusty Davies
received.
>> Trusty Davis.
Yes, I did. I'm uh waiting on Trusty
Chibi.
>> Okay. Received.
The motion passed unanimously with a
vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you. Great.
Is there a motion to approve item B,
monthly investment reports, financial
statements, and budget reviews for May
and June 2025?
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Dr.
Ford Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This item is
recommended to the board to accept the
monthly investment reports, financial
statements, and budget reviews for May
and June of 20125. And with your
permission, Madame Chair, I'll ask Dr.
Han to provide an overview and respond
to questions. Dr.
>> Thank you everyone. I'll be really brief
here. Uh, basically, we're doing well
financially. We are ahead of the game in
terms of revenue and expense both. We're
at roughly 83.3% of the year completed
as of June and we have um 96% of
expected revenue based on the budget. So
that's wonderful. Although state
appropriation payments are a little slow
coming coming in, uh we're still getting
what we need to get by. Likewise on
expenses, 83% of the month of the year
complete, only 75% of the expenses used
up. That's not an advertisement for the
group. Let's just report. Um, so we're
doing well in terms of income statement
and the operating fund one. There are
our expenses.
No great variances to be aware of. We
may have a little bit of additional cost
at some of the colleges only because
their programs are are blossoming.
Welding in particular uses more supplies
than originally anticipated in the
budget because they're doing very well.
So, I really can't complain.
Any questions at all about income
statement? Okay, I'll keep rolling.
>> Oh, question. Trusty
>> Sh. Yep. Just just wanted to confirm.
So, the uh the outstanding state
appropriation funding that came in in
the month of July. So,
>> it it did it was a little late. We got
15.7 million in July that was supposed
to be here in June. Um we're expecting a
tiny little dollop of $46,000 in
September because the state had to
recalibrate the amount of supplemental
payment we would get. their math, not
ours. Um, and so this year we've
received $68.7 million of total
appropriation.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. And then second question is
there's there's a pretty big variance on
the um
>> which one? Nope.
>> Yep. It was the investment portfolio.
>> The investment portfolio. So is are is
is that additional spending going to hit
between now and the end of the fiscal
year or are we pretty much where we're
at and we're just going to expect to see
that variance?
>> That that'll probably persist. It was um
we had roughly 30 million $32 million
to spend uh 9.7 million of vendor
payments, 700,000 student refunds, $20
million of payroll to cover. You're
welcome. Um and then 1.2 million in
payroll taxes. So that we needed the
funds for that purpose. And so uh that
squeezed us a little bit in terms of the
investments. We're expecting to see I'm
expecting to see another uh fund mature,
another bond mature in September. That
will be 10 million. So, that will be
coming.
>> And then last question, um just swag.
Are we still kind of in the 10 million
revenue for the year?
>> Yes, I'm might be nibbling away a little
bit here and there, but close.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Yep.
Trusty Wilson.
>> Um,
our interest expense on the debt was
about 1.5 million for the month.
>> Um, I don't have that handy, but I could
verify it for you.
>> It's on page one.
>> Yes, but I don't have that right in
front of me.
And do you know what our uh principal
payment is monthly?
>> I do not. Is Dawn here? She is not.
>> Come on up, Don. Don Stevens, the ABC.
>> Thank you.
>> Good afternoon, everybody. Um to answer
to your questions, we don't make monthly
payments. We're due to make another
payment on the end of this month,
August,
on the investments on the um bonds. I'm
sorry.
>> That was a semianual.
>> I'm sorry. I could not hear.
>> Oh, I was just saying that we don't make
monthly payments on the bonds. Our next
payment is due at the end of this month
>> which is quarterly or is it a six month
or when they come due or
>> semianual?
>> Semianually they come due. Well, how
much is it for six months? I can divide
by six.
>> I don't have it.
>> I don't have I don't want to give you
the wrong number. I don't have that
>> handy, but we could get it for you.
What what I'm getting at for the board
is I would like to see the day when this
institution, you know, when I first came
on, we had about a billion dollars in in
debt and we paid it down to about
400,000
or 400 million now. That's our
outstanding debt. I'd like to see us get
that paid off and instead of paying 1.5
million a month in interest, we put that
in the bank for a building program and
for a deferred maintenance program
rather than paying I know the bond
uh selling attorneys don't want to hear
me say this, but I'd like to see it
where we got in a position where this
board and this institution could run on
a cash basis and we could finance
everything uh inhouse and we get uh to
that position that would be a wonderful
position for financially for this
institution.
That's what I'm getting at.
>> It's just a matter of getting enough
fund enough fund reserves to pay it all
off at once. That's the issue. So, you
know, and there's, you know, I know some
of them come due and you can't pay them
off until the due date and all that, but
yeah, uh increasing our fund balance and
that so we can pay this total debt down
and become debtree and then not have to
pay interest for stuff.
>> Thank you.
>> I would love to include that as if I'm
allowed to
>> in the budget next year. Well, no, but
you were reading my mind as perhaps a
guiding principle. I'm going to be
asking you all for guiding principles. I
am going to be proposing some that you
can react to and you can add to during
the conversation in September so that as
we roll out our advanced speedier budget
cycle for FY27, we can include those
comments and then make sure what we
develop aligns with what you're looking
for if we can afford it.
>> Looking forward to seeing it. Okay.
>> Thank you, Chancellor.
>> Well, I I think Dr. Han has summed it
up. I think what you have just said,
Trusty Wilson, is something that we
desire as well and that we want to move
toward and that we will move and
accomplish because I think we all feel
the same way. There are so many needs
and to have the debt that is constantly
uh bedeviling us is something that is
really preventing us from doing some of
the magnificent things that we know are
are really going to serve our community
and our students well. So with that,
what I'd like to ask is whether or not
with the other request if we could get
that information and send it to you via
WAB.
>> Yes, please.
>> Thank you.
>> Glad to do it.
>> Uh Trusty Davis, did I hear you?
>> Yeah, Dr. I I was trying to just get
clear. Were you inferring that not using
debt is now a guiding principle or you
would just add in comments and you would
solicit other thoughts from other
trustees about utilizing debt or
>> well I was I was suggesting that we have
a couple of guiding principle principles
we've put together after my whopping
eight months here and the other staff
members on the team and we would propose
those as examples of guiding princip
principles because we want to start out
with that for the FY27 budget cycle. We
want to have the guiding principles. We
want to have some guidelines for what it
is we're building so that we know we're
meeting the needs of our customers and
our stakeholders. So that was just I was
just noting it as a possible addition to
that laundry list. It's by no means
complete or you know exclusive. I would
just re certainly I would just retort
that this trustee is not of the position
that not utilizing debt should be a a
guiding principle as based on what uh I
know and I'm not saying that other than
the simple fact I think financing tools
should all be available at our disposal
and we have to be able to on a
casebycase basis analyze and determine
what uh funding mechanism we should
apply. So I would I would want to
register my dissension with a unilateral
approach or declaration of principle
that says we don't utilize debt.
>> Okay. Heard you
>> noted. I I will still be providing a
list that we can all react to and build
out from pluses and minuses. We can
remove items, we can add items. It's
very early for FY27 planning, but thank
you for your thoughts on it.
>> Thank you.
We're now ready to vote on item B,
monthly investment report, financial
statement and budget reviews for May and
June 2025.
I
>> received.
>> I got her.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you. Thank you board. Board
members, thank you for your attendance.
Thank you for going out into the
community. Thank you for your hard work
and uh and going to the partnership
gatherings that some have happened, some
are coming up. And I want to wish
everyone a great school year. I know
we're going to be starting on the 18th
of August. So that's before the next
board meeting, but we all wish you well.
Good luck. Bring those students in and
let's have a great year. And again, uh
have
Thank you.
And we're hearing the thunder out there.
So, safe travels and going home. And
we'll see you at the next event, next
meeting. Thank you.
>> Meeting is adjourned at
>> 4:59 p.m.
>> Wow. 4:59. Can we do a resolution for
Emily at the board meeting? For sure.